1005.txt:"Now you can explore some of the most famous mountains on Earth, including Aconcagua (South America), Kilimanjaro (Africa), Mount Elbrus (Europe) and Everest Base Camp (Asia) on Google Maps," he wrote in a blog post in 2013. "While there's nothing quite like standing on the mountain," he added, "with Google Maps you can instantly transport yourself to the top of these peaks and enjoy the sights without all of the avalanches, rock slides, crevasses and dangers from altitude and weather that mountaineers face." On March 30, Fredinburg's Twitter and Instagram accounts showed a picture of an orange water bottle with a carabiner dangling from it in a room full of climbing gear. It read: "2015 Everest Expedition fully underway. Gear is ready. I am ready. Now spending some time thinking about how this year's climb can be as impactful as possible!" He went on to document Kathmandu and Lukla, Nepal. "The most dangerous airport in the world (due to lack of sufficient runway)," he wrote of Lukla, accompanying a cockpit photo of a short runway surrounded by buildings.
1007.txt:A plane carrying 15 injured people later arrived in Katmandu from Lukla, home of the nearest airport to Qomolangma. Officials declined to provide details of their conditions, but most appeared to have broken bones or other treatable injuries. Of those evacuated, 12 were Sherpas from Nepal. There was also one person each from China, South Korea and Japan.
100.txt:Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who was attending a summit in Jakarta, tried to rush back home but made it as far as Bangkok where his connecting flight to Kathmandu was canceled because the capital's international airport was shut down for commercial flights.
1014.txt:But there has been little sign of international assistance on the ground so far, with some aid flights prevented from landing by aftershocks that closed Kathmandu's main airport several times on Sunday.
1016.txt:Neighboring countries sent in military transport planes laden with medical supplies, food and water. But little sign of organized relief efforts was visible as aid agencies struggled to fly helicopters in cloudy weather, aftershocks forced the intermittent closure of Kathmandu airport and roads were blocked by landslides.
1023.txt:Many areas were without power and water on Sunday but when Kathmandu airport reopened the first planes loaded with aid arrived. Workers were sending out tents and relief goods in trucks and helicopters, said a disaster management official, Rameshwar Dangal, adding that government and private schools had been turned into makeshift shelters.
1023.txt:“Many injured are being ferried to Lukla from Feriche and are getting treatment here,” Sherpa said. “Tourists are quarrelling with the airport officials for plane tickets as they want to go back.”
1034.txt:Banerjee, who arrived at Bagdogra airport this afternoon to assess first hand the damage caused by the powerful temblor in north Bengal, told reporters that the damage and devastation were "very sad and unfortunate".
1036.txt:A slew of steps were also taken for speedy evacuation of stranded tourists including goodwill visas to foreigners and mobilising buses and ambulances to bring them by road. Over 1,000 people have been flown from Nepal since yesterday.An inter-ministerial team, headed by a top Home Ministry official, will also leave for Nepal soon to coordinate the rescue and relief efforts as part of 'Operation Maitri' or friendship."I underline that rapid rescue and relief is our primary mission in Nepal. Situation in Nepal is very, very serious," Foreign Secretary S Jaishankar said at a joint news conference. Home Secretary L C Goyal, Defence Secretary R K Mathur, chief of National Disaster Management Authority R K Jain and India Meteorological Department head L S Rathore were also present.Giving details, Jaishankar said 546 Indian nationals were brought back yesterday while 504 have already arrived today and 130 more are expected to land late tonight.He said while the rescue team were trying to evacuate nationals of other countries, Indians were the obvious priority.India has deployed more military planes and in all there were 13 aircraft, six Mi-17 helicopters, two Advanced Light Helicopters while two more Mi-17 choppers were kept in standby. Four C-17 Globemaster-III and three C-130J Super Hercules planes were among them.Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar said the aim of the government is to be the first to respond to any crisis in the neighbourhood and to do so in a "quick span of time".Ten tonnes of blankets, 50 tonnes of water, 22 tonnes of food items and two tonnes of medicines have been despatched to Kathmandu.Three army field hospitals and engineering task force and medical units of civilian doctors have been sent to Nepal.Jaishankar said today's aftershocks have hampered the rescue and relief operations as Kathmandu airport was shut for long hours. However, the airport was later reopened.He said the government has deployed 35 buses to evacuate stranded Indians in Nepal via two routes -- Sunauli and Raxaul -- along the Indo-Nepal border. "We are undertaking a big evacuation through the road route," Goyal said.The Secretaries appealed to the "thousands of stranded people" to be patient as conducting such salvage operations was difficult even as they assured that India would accommodate as many people as it can, including helping foreign nationals.
1043.txt:Foreign rescue teams equipped with heavy cutting gear and relief supplies were landing round the clock at Nepal’s only international airport on the outskirts of Kathmandu, which has been devastated by Saturday’s 7.8-magnitude quake.
1045.txt:Following the quake, Kathmandu’s international airport was shut down.
1049.txt:Aid agencies around the world wasted no time appealing for donations to help Nepal. And with Kathmandu's airport reopening Sunday, the first aid flights began arriving with supplies.
1054.txt:Al Jazeera's Simmons also reported that rescuers and medical staff are also making their way to other parts of the country, but the congestion at the airport has slowed down their deployment.
1056.txt:Furthermore, the Tribhuvan International Airport in Katmandu, Nepal has been closed for all commercial flights. Only flights carrying relief are allowed into its runways.
1059.txt:Local hospitals were already filling with injured residents, and Kathmandu’s international airport was shut down, hampering initial relief efforts in the isolated mountainous country.
105.txt:The earthquake also shook several cities across northern India, and was felt as far away as Lahore in Pakistan, Lhasa in Tibet, and in Dhaka, Bangladesh. Following the quake, Kathmandu's international airport was shut down.
1060.txt:Local hospitals were already filling with injured residents, and Kathmandu’s international airport was shut down, hampering initial relief efforts in the isolated mountainous country.
1063.txt:At the same time, Col. Yoram Laredo, the commander of the Israeli delegation to Nepal said that even arriving safely to assist will be a challenge as Kathmandu airport was heavily damaged in the earthquake.
1067.txt:NSC secretary Datuk Mohamed Thajudeen Abdul Wahab said it was decided that the Malaysians would be brought back in a Royal Malaysian Air Force (RMAF) Hercules C-130 aircraft which would depart the RMAF base in Subang this afternoon for the Kathmandu International Airport.
1071.txt:Two C-130 aircraft of the Pakistan Air Force (PAF) have landed at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu on Sunday and two more were expected to reach there on Monday, Dawn online reported.
1071.txt:The Pakistani ambassador and other embassy officials were present at the airport to extend logistical support to the relief team.
1074.txt:The MFA team took the first available SilkAir flight to Nepal on Sunday morning, and has since arrived in Nepal. They are based at the Kathmandu International Airport to assist Singaporeans who wish to leave the country.
1075.txt:Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport, named after the grandfather of Nepal's last king deposed by referendum in 2008, reopened for commercial traffic on Sunday afternoon, its runway secure.
1076.txt:With Kathmandu airport reopened, the first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. The first to respond were Nepal’s neighbors — India, China and Pakistan, all of which have been jockeying for influence over the landlocked nation. Still, Nepal remains closest to India with which it shares deep political, cultural and religious ties.
1076.txt:Mukesh Kafle, the head of the Nepal Electricity Authority, said power has been restored fully to main government offices, the airport and hospitals.
1078.txt:The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country's only international airport which was briefly closed.
1078.txt:People stand on the runway outside the International Terminal after a earthquake hit, at Tribhuvan International Airport, Kathmandu, Nepal, April 25, 2015, in this handout courtesy of Dhany Osman. The massive earthquake measuring 7.9 magnitude struck 80 km (50 miles) east of Pokhara in Nepal on Saturday, causing some buildings in the capital Kathmandu to collapse, witnesses said. (REUTERS)
1078.txt:People stand on the runway outside the International Terminal after a earthquake hit, at Tribhuvan International Airport, Kathmandu, Nepal, April 25, 2015, in this handout courtesy of Dhany Osman. The massive earthquake measuring 7.9 magnitude struck 80 km (50 miles) east of Pokhara in Nepal on Saturday, causing some buildings in the capital Kathmandu to collapse, witnesses said. (REUTERS)
1079.txt:Around 1,000 tourists have amassed at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu in the hope of getting out of Nepal following the earthquake
1079.txt:Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu has re-opened following the disaster, but with over a thousand people queuing overnight, the journey out of Nepal will be problematic for tourists.
1079.txt:NDTV reports that a queue 'perhaps a kilometre long' has grown outside Nepal's only international airport, with many families having to go without food and water in the hope of leaving the country.
1079.txt:'However, Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport (TIA) may be unusable following a large-scale earthquake, as will Nepal’s road network. It could take some days for it to become operational.'
1079.txt:Nepalese rescue members and onlookers gather at the collapsed Darahara Tower in Kathmandu; tourists are now making their way to Tribhuvan International Airport in the hope of avoiding another disaster
1080.txt:Amir Barda and Tal Bosidon, who have been in Nepal for the last month and a half awaiting the birth of their baby, were two of the 200 Israelis to crowd at the airport in Kathmandu: "On the one hand, it is an amazing and proud feeling to see the El Al plane here to take us home, but on the other hand the same plane that sends planes to the edge of the world to bring Israelis home – is the same state that because of its laws people like us have to go to remote places and go through such a difficult process. (Yaniv Kubovich, Haaretz correspondent in Kathmandu)
1080.txt:11:13 P.M. The first of four plane carrying IDF medical aid to Nepal landed late Monday in Kathmandu. Three other planes took off from Ben Gurion international Airport in the afternoon, including a civilian aircraft carrying some 50 tons of equipment, mostly medical, for use by the rescue team dispatched to treat survivors of the tragedy.
1080.txt:4:07 P.M. Kathmandu airport reaches capacity; aid aircraft turned back
1080.txt:Official death count in Nepal earthquake has risen to over 4,100, the Nepalese Interior Ministry reported. At the same time, chaos has reportedly taken over the small international airport in Kathmandu, packed with tourists wishing to escape the country. The airport has run out of parking space, and at least 15 aircraft are currently hovering in the skies waiting to land.
1080.txt:At the same time, four Indian Air Force aircraft carrying communication humanitarian aid and rescue team were forced to head back to New Delhi due to the heavy traffic. The planes are expected to land over the night, when the situation in the airport may improve.
1080.txt:Kathmandu Airport is out of parking space. 15+ flights holding & waiting for their turn http://t.co/xit7JfLHCW pic.twitter.com/3GvW2gOnWx — Flightradar24 (@flightradar24) April 27, 2015
1080.txt:The medical team to accompany the Israeli army delegation to Nepal has taken off to Kathmandu. The Israeli army said that another civilian airliner will take off from Ben Gurion Airport in the next few hours carrying about 50 tons of equipment, most of it medical, to be used by the delegation in order to rescue and treat disaster victims. Following these airliners' departure, the Israeli delegation to Nepal will be complete. (Gili Cohen)
1080.txt:A Magen David Adom plane has landed at Sde Dov airport in Tel Aviv, carrying 18 Israelis who were extracted from Nepal. Among those rescued are five newborn babies, including a set of twins, who were born to surrogate mothers and three two-year-olds. The others on board were the children's parents and relatives, totaling four families.
1080.txt:An Israel Air Force aircraft has returned safely with the first group of Israelis extracted from Nepal. The group consists of eight adults and three newborns who were born to Israeli couples by Nepalese women via a surrogacy procedure. Another plane sent to Kathmandu by the Magen David Adom emergency service together with the Phoenix insurance company, is scheduled to land at Tel Aviv's Sde Dov airport at 12:30 P.M. The plane is carrying 10 adults and eight children.
1080.txt:The Israeli delegation to Nepal returned home following delays due to issues at the Kathmandu airport, but told to be available on three hours' notice. They are expected to leave tomorrow, but this may only happen on Tuesday.
1080.txt:Planes loaded with logistic equipment and the delegations's personal belongings are already waiting at the airport. The delegation was originally supposed to fly to Nepal on large four-engine Boeing aircrafts, too large to land at the Kathmandu airport.
1080.txt:A description of the current state of Kathmandu was given to Haaretz by Yonatan Leitner, a member of the evacuation team sent to Nepal by the Harel insurance company, who landed in Kathmandu on Sunday morning. "We arrived here this morning after many delays. There were problems landing - the airport isn't really functioning. When we landed there was a pretty serious secondary quake - while we were unloading the baggage in the terminal. From there we drove to the embassy – we've been there for 12 hours already, and met with local army officers." Both locals and tourists are sleeping outdoors due to fears of further quakes and building collapses, Leitner said, adding that many of the Israelis are sleeping on the embassy lawn. According to Leiter, the locals are sleeping in parks and open area, and long lines of people can be seen outside military posts, waiting in line to receive water and food. The city, he told Haaretz, "looks like a refugee camp. It's disconnected, there's no electricity in the houses. The Israelis, they are OK – but the locals – there are places with no running water, they are standing in line for water." (Noa Shpigel)
1080.txt:Indian nationals stand in a queue outside Kathmandu International airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, Sunday, April 26, 2015.(AP) 4:40 P.M. Number of Israelis still unaccounted for down to 150 The Foreign Ministry says the number of Israelis who remain unaccounted for, and are thought to have been traveling in the region, is now down to 150. The Foreign Ministry also said that eight Israelis and three newborn babies born to Israeli couples by Nepalese women via a surrogacy procedure were already on their way to Israel. It also said that reports on a traffic accident involving Israelis in Nepal were being investigated. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu spoke with the head of the Israeli aid mission to Nepal, deputy general Yoram Larado, and told him: "You are being sent on an important mission. This is the true face of Israel – a nation that sends aid, to and distance, during such moments. (Barak Ravid) 4:00 P.M. El Al aid flights to Nepal delayed The two El Al Boeing 747 planes scheduled to fly to Nepal on Sunday afternoon carrying an aid mission organized by Israel's Defense Ministry and the Home Front Command were delayed due to the re-closure of the Kathmandu airport in the aftermath of a secondary quake. The flights, which were originally scheduled to leave Ben Gurion International Airport at 5 P.M. , will leave at 10:30 P.M. On their return trip, the planes will carry home Israeli survivors of the disaster zone, including newborn babies birthed by surrogate Nepalese mothers to Israeli couples. The Home Front Command's delegation includes 260 people, who will take part in search and rescue operations, and offer medical attention to survivors via a field hospital. The delegation will also attempt to contact Israelis who are still unaccounted for. Forty doctors and some 80 other medical staff will man the military field hospital, which will include operating rooms, x-ray facilities and a delivery room. (Zohar Blumenkrantz) Damaged roads are seen after an earthquake on the outskirts of Kathmandu on April 26, 2015. (AFP) A Nepalese man plays with his 8-month-old daughter as he is treated for injuries at a city hospital in Kathmandu on April 26, 2015. (AFP) (AFP) Barak Ravid, Zohar Blumenkrantz, Noa Shpigel, Yaniv Kubovich, Reuters and the Associated Press contributed to this report.
1081.txt:Local hospitals were already filling with injured residents, and Kathmandu’s international airport was shut down, hampering initial relief efforts in the isolated mountainous country.
1083.txt:Members of a Japanese rescue team heading to Nepal line up at a departure entrance on their way to board their plane at the Narita International Airport in Narita, east of Tokyo, Japan, 26 April 2015. Japan is sending some 70 rescue team members to help in the rescue effort following the devastating earthquake that hit Nepal on 25 April. Governments and international humanitarian groups pledged aid in the wake of the Nepal earthquake that killed more than 1,800 people. (Credit: EPA)
1083.txt:Members of a Japanese rescue team heading to Nepal walk through the airport lobby on their way to board their plane at the Narita International Airport in Narita, east of Tokyo, Japan, 26 April 2015. Japan is sending some 70 rescue team members to help in the rescue effort following the devastating earthquake that hit Nepal on 25 April. Governments and international humanitarian groups pledged aid in the wake of the Nepal earthquake that killed more than 1,800 people. (Credit: EPA)
1083.txt:An Indian army helicopter is parked on the tarmac of the Kathmandu international airport the day after a massive earthquake devastated the region, in Kathmandu, Nepal, Sunday, April 26, 2015. (Credit: AP)
1090.txt:"Two C-130 aircraft of Pakistan Air Force carrying more than 50,000 lbs of relief goods arrived at the Tribhuvan International Airport, Kathmandu today," Foreign Office said.
1090.txt:The relief goods included ready to eat meals, mineral water, tents, blankets, mobile hospital, medicines and life-saving drugs, it said in a statement.Additionally doctors and rescue teams from Pakistan Army also arrived in same aircraft to assist the relief efforts in Nepal. The planes also delivered a 30-bed hospital and medicines.The Ambassador of Pakistan and other Embassy officials were present at the Airport to facilitate and extend logistical support to Pakistan Relief Assistance Team.The assistance was delivered on the instruction of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif.Besides making efforts for the relief assistance to Nepal Government, the Embassy also reached out to the Pakistani Expatriate Community Members to extend them necessary support.39 Pakistani nationals who were stranded in Kathmandu were evacuated and brought back safely to PAF Base Nur Khan.The statement said two more Pakistani C-130 Aircraft with relief assistance are due to arrive in Kathmandu tomorrow.
1091.txt:The air force flew over 1,000 Indians out of the quake-hit Nepalese capital, flying extended sorties through the day despite fresh aftershocks forcing closure of airports for some hours on Sunday.
1095.txt:A separate group booked by Mr Taylor’s company for Mera peak had descended due to bad weather and was en route to Lukla airport over the past few days, she said.
1095.txt:“Lee got a phone call at about 2.40pm from Christine and Ellen to say they had borrowed a phone, that they were in the airport and they were in the queue. That’s all I know really but they seem to be okay,” she said.
1096.txt:Substantial logistical hurdles remain, but there were hopeful signs as Kathmandu’s international airport reopened after Saturday’s crushing earthquake, and some aid vehicles were able to travel overland from India to the stricken Nepalese city of Pokhara.
1096.txt:“That means supplies could potentially come in overland from India. That is a positive sign,” said Ben Pickering, Save the Children’s humanitarian adviser in Britain. “The airport opening is a small miracle.”
1096.txt:He cautioned that chaotic conditions may create a bottleneck at the airport as governments and aid agencies try to bring in personnel and supplies in the coming days.
1096.txt:Volunteers from various British charities gathered at London’s Heathrow Airport getting ready for overnight flights to the Nepal region.
1102.txt:Two C-130 aircraft of the Pakistan Air Force (PAF) have landed at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu on Sunday and two more were expected to reach there on Monday, Dawn online reported.
1102.txt:The Pakistani ambassador and other embassy officials were present at the airport to extend logistical support to the relief team.
1104.txt:Even so, people formed a line of a kilometre outside Kathmandu airport, hoping to take one of the infrequent flights out of the country. According to one estimate, more than 3,000 Indians were stranded at the airport as of Sunday evening, waiting for an evacuation.
1109.txt:“I just saw an update that the airport is now open. I am checking with a few city organisations to see if anyone is going or not. But whether or not I get support from the organisations here, I will just travel there and try to reach out to local NGOs,” he says. His drive comes from a personal connect with the country.
1115.txt:He said, however, two persons -- identified by their first names only as Omar and Sajad -- have sustained injuries in the 7.9 magnitude tremor that has left over 1900 persons dead."Both the injured are undergoing treatment at Teaching Hospital in Kathmandu and are out of danger," the spokesman said.Several families here had expressed concern about the fate of their loved ones in Nepal as they were not able to get in touch with them due to disruption in telecommunication services in the earthquake-hit Himalayan country.The spokesman said the Police Control Room Srinagar is in constant touch with the Ministry of External Affairs Control Room in Delhi and the Control Room in Kathmandu."Government of India has made elaborate arrangements to evacuate the stranded people from Nepal. All the stranded persons have been asked to contact Wing Commander Ravi Sharma at Kathmandu airport for evacuation," he added.
1118.txt:Gripping images coming out of the Asian country show only a fraction of the damage that massive earthquake left after rocking the country of Nepal.While many now sift through rubble and debris a half a world away, back here in the Metro Richmond area members of the Chester Christian Church are breathing a sigh of relief."As soon as it happened they were able to communicate with me to let me know they were safe, and they reached out to their families and we were able to reach out to their families and the rest of the church," John Bukoffskey said.Four members of the Chesterfield Church left Thursday for a mission trip in the Asian country, just 30 minutes after they landed at the airport, disaster would follow.Church Mission Leader John Bukoffskey had planned on traveling with the group but things didn't pan out.Since the quake, he has been in constant contact."They were rushed out of the airport. Their luggage is still at the airport and they are at the hotel, they are safe but they are being rushed in and out of the hotel as the tremors happen also," Bukoffskey said.Aaron Hoback, pastor of Chester Christian Church, is thankful that all four team members of the mission group are okay."At first it was relief but then it was heartbreak for the folks over in Nepal, people who are going through this, families just going through this devastation," Aaron Hoback said.Pastor Hoback says the church typically plans one or two mission trips a year. Their group had planned to meet up with others from a Nebraska Church."They were supposed to be leaving Kathmandu about two hours after they arrived to go out into a village area to build a internet cafe/ training center," Bukoffskey said.Both Pastor Hoback and John Bukoffskey say those plans may change now with thousands in need of helping hands."They were supposed to go earlier in the month and that date change and so they are there for a reason, a purpose and God has a plan for them," Hoback said.
1125.txt:Jaishankar said today's aftershocks have hampered the rescue and relief operations as Kathmandu airport was shut for long hours. However, the airport was later reopened. Director General of IMD L S Rathore said that there is possibility of heavy to very heavy rains in the next 48 hours and this is expected to cause some hindrance in the rescue and relief operations.
1126.txt:Sebastian Lovera, of Springwell Road, Tonbridge, was trekking from Khumjung airport where he landed on Tuesday towards the Mount Everest base camp with his climbing companion Emil Kaminsky when the earthquake hit.
1126.txt:International rescue teams including from Britain are understood to be on their way to Nepal but the main airport in the capital is currently shut.
1134.txt:Tribhuvan International Airport was temporarily closed after the quake but was reopened for services after a security check.
1137.txt:Till Sunday morning the IAF planes had fetched 546 Indian citizens, including several infants, back from quake-hit Nepal. The operations had to be stalled between 1:30 p.m. and 4:00 p.m., since the Kathmandu airport was shut temporarily due to fresh tremors.
1138.txt:Kathamandu airport has re-opened and aid flights have started delivering desperately needed supplies.
1142.txt:Flight operations to Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport have resumed after Saturday’s devastating 7.9 magnitude earthquake that flattened buildings and monuments in Nepal, with the official death toll crossing 2,000.
1142.txt:"We are expecting to operate four flights to and from Kathmandu today. However due to congestion at Kathmandu airport there may be delays."
1142.txt:Air Arabia also flies to Kathmandu from Ras Al Khaimah International Airport on Sundays and Wednesdays.
1144.txt:They know they need to hurry. Kathmandu's airport reopened, a key development.
1146.txt:KATHMANDU - A massive earthquake killed more than 1,341 people Saturday as it tore through large parts of Nepal, toppling office blocks and towers in Kathmandu and triggering a deadly avalanche at Everest base camp.Officials said at least 1,341 people are known to have died in Nepal, making it the quake-prone Himalayan nation’s worst disaster in more than 80 years.But the final toll from the 7.8 magnitude quake could be much higher, and dozens more people were reported killed in neighbouring India and China.“The death toll has reached 1,341” Nepal police spokesman Kamal Singh Bam told reporters, adding that rescue efforts were still underway.Emergency workers fanned out across the Himalayan nation to rescue those trapped under collapsed homes, buildings and other debris.Officials said 10 people were killed when an avalanche buried parts of Mount Everest’s base camp in Nepal where hundreds of mountaineers have gathered at the start of the annual climbing season.Kathmandu was severely damaged, and the historic nine-storey Dharahara tower, a major tourist attraction, was among buildings brought down.At least a dozen bodies were taken away from the ruins of the 19th-century tower, according to an AFP photographer who saw similar scenes of multiple casualties throughout the city.“It was difficult to breath, but I slowly moved the debris. Someone then pulled me out. I don’t know where my friends are,” Dharmu Subedi, 36, who was standing outside the tower when it collapsed, said from a hospital bed.At least 42 people were known to have died in India, including 30 in the eastern state of Bihar, while buildings in the capital New Delhi had to be evacuated. Tremors were also felt as far as in Pakistan.The United States Geological Survey said the shallow quake struck 77 kilometres northwest of Kathmandu at 0611 GMT, with walls crumbling and families racing outside their homes.The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country’s only international airport which was briefly closed.Kari Cuelenaere, an official at the Dutch embassy, said the impact had swept the water out of a swimming pool at a Kathmandu hotel where Dutch national day was being celebrated.“It was horrible, all of a sudden all the water came up out of the pool and drenched everyone, the children started screaming,” Cuelenaere told AFP. “Some parts of the city fell down, there was dust rising... There were many (rescue) helicopters.”Aftershock tremors could be felt more than two hours after the initial quake.USGS initially measured the quake at 7.5 magnitude and later adjusted it to 7.8, with a depth of 15 kilometres.A spokesman for Nepal’s home ministry said the government had released around $500 million as emergency funds for rescue operations.China’s official Xinhua news agency said that 13 people, including an 83-year-old woman, were killed in the Tibet region.The area has a history of earthquakes, with a 6.8 magnitude quake that hit eastern Nepal in August 1988 killing 721 people. A magnitude 8.1 quake killed 10,700 people in Nepal and eastern India in 1934.More details on Page 11
1161.txt:The relief goods will reach the Nepalese capital as soon as the Kathmandu Airport becomes functional.
1161.txt:The premier was informed that four aircraft were ready with relief goods and would leave as soon as the airport in Kathmandu was available for landing.
1162.txt:NDRF Director General (DG) OP Singh, who is camping in the capital city of Kathmandu since yesterday, said a team of his men has also been deployed at the Tribhuvan international airport to assist Indian Embassy officials in the air evacuation of stranded Indians.
1167.txt:While 11 bodies were brought in from Lukla area, the airport closest to the Everest base camp, unconfirmed reports said around 100 people were stranded at the base camp. Google executive Dan Fredinburg is believed to be among those killed in the base camp area.
1169.txt:Performing the twin role of providing succor to earth quake hit Nepal and simultaneously bringing stranded Indian nationals back home, the Indian Air Force has unloaded tonnes of relief material and brought back more than 600 Indians on its return flights. The entire relief and rescue mission had been code named as Op Maitry. A C-17 Globemaster III of IAF landed this evening at Palam Airport which brought in 237 stranded Indians, including a baby. Three IAF aircraft landed in the wee hours today, brought back around 500 people onboard. The first C-130J Super Hercules came back late last night with 55 passengers, while three other aircrafttwo C-17, IL-76 landed at Palam, bringing 479 Indians back home. Five Mi-17 V5 helicopters, which reached Nepal, are flying almost non-stop since this morning, Sitanshu Kar, Chief Defence spokesperson said here. The pilots had to hold choppers on power so as not to disturb the ground below.The helipad was badly damaged and the helicopter could not be switched off, Mr Kar said. Six persons have been evacuated by a MI17 V5 of IAF from Dhuncha helipad, 50 km North of Kathmandu.In support of the Nepalese Army, the IAF has rescued 171 people by flying 21 sorties. The IAF has deployed its newest 4 Mi 17 V5 and 2 Mi-17 helicopters.The IAF had carried out aerial recce in support of the Nepalese government under the guidance of the Nepalese Army.''Nepalese Army pilots are also flying on board Indian helicopters to familiarise the Indian pilots with the terrain'', the IAF officials said. As many as 6 Mi-17 helicopters were stationed at Gorakhpur while another 6 at different places have been kept in the standby position for Op Maitry. The Indian Army have dispatched its experts team to Nepal to assist the Nepalese Army in relief and rescue mission. Major General JS Sandhu was heading the teams. UNI MK AY RSA 1810 -- (UNI) -- C-1-1-DL0352-97260.Xml
116.txt:A C-130 transport aircraft of the IAF—with three tonnes of relief materials, 36 NDRF personnel and a mobile hospital with doctors and paramedics—landed at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu within a few hours of the quake.
116.txt:Though the airport was closed for commercial flights immediately after the quake, the IAF sent two C-17 aircraft from the Hindon airbase in Uttar Pradesh. Another aircraft would take off from Bhatinda in Punjab, said Foreign Secretary S Jaishankar.
1173.txt:All the stranded persons have been asked to contact Wing Commander Ravi Sharma (Phone no. 009779818700724) at Kathmandu airport for evacuation.
1177.txt:The Kathmandu airport, which was shut down for hours following Saturday's devastating quake, reopened for the arrival of foreign aids. Endi
1180.txt:The 62-strong China International Search and Rescue Team arrived in Nepal on Sunday to carry out humanitarian mission following a 7.9 magnitude quake struck the country. Shankar Koirala, Nepal's joint secretary of the Office of the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers, warmly welcomed the Chinese team at the Kathmandu airport, terming their arrival as a timely assistance. The joint secretary said his country will do its best to facilitate the Chinese team so that they will rescue as many Nepali people as they can. Chinese Ambassador to Nepal Wu Chuntai wished the Chinese team success in carrying out their assignment. The death toll from a powerful earthquake which struck Nepal at midday on Saturday has climbed to 1,896 including 723 in the Nepal’s capital Kathmandu, a senior government official told Xinhua on Sunday morning. The powerful earthquake jolted central, western, mid-western and far-western parts of Nepal, leaving tens and hundreds of people injured and causing damage to properties worth over billions of U. S. dollars. The 7.9-magnitude earthquake, which was followed by at least 14 aftershocks, also jolted parts of India, and was felt in Bangladesh and Pakistan. Four Chinese nationals, including two workers with a Chinese company, a mountain climber and a tourist, were killed and five others seriously injured in the quake, the Chinese Embassy confirmed. Rescue operations are underway by the Nepal Army, Police and Armed Police Force but they are slow in the remote areas of the country due to lack of equipment. An emergency cabinet meeting has announced 29 districts in the country as crisis zones, according to the Home Ministry. Amid the devastating disaster, the government of Nepal has appealed for assistance from the international community. Related: China's Medical Team to Join Nepal Search Xi Extends Condolences In Tibet: 17 Dead in Tibet Relief Supplies Rushed to Tibet No Respite as Snow Continues in Tibet
1181.txt:The first air craft carrying relief items and a team of relief workers to assist in aid work in the earthquake hit regions in Nepal left the Katunayake International Airport on the morning of Sunday, April 26.
1181.txt:Brigadier Jayaweera added that two other aircraft carrying 156 relief workers including 14 army personnel are due to leave the airport. Meanwhile, the Sri Lankan Ambassador in Nepal, W.M. Seneviratne noted that the Kathmandu International Airport has been closed for air traffic and added that however, discussions have been made regarding the arrival of Sri Lankan flights carrying relief aid.
1182.txt:According to the Prime Minister’s office, the first Sri Lankan plane carrying relief aid to the victimized people of Nepal reached Katmandu airport at 10.30 this morning.The first relief aid team from Sri Lanka comprises 48 personnel including doctors, health workers and Electric Engineers.Meanwhile, the President has advised the commanders of the tri-forces to provide immediate relief to the victims in Nepal.Accordingly, the army has already prepared a team of 180 persons including their doctors, to be flown to Nepal if necessary.Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe held special talks with Nepal President Ram Baran Yadev via telephone this morning.The Prime Minister extended condolences on behalf of the Sri Lankan President and the government, and also assured that the Sri Lankan government is ready to provide any relief service.Since there is a great necessity of relief service in medical sector for the Nepalese victims, the Prime Minister’s office requests volunteering doctors, nurses and other health workers to contact the number 071 2 492 484.Meanwhile, Sri Lankan Ambassador to Nepal W.M. Seneviratne stated that, according to the reports, no Sri Lankans were injured in the earthquake in Nepal.While speaking to our news team, he added that they are taking immediate measures to bring down 200 Sri Lankans in Nepal including 120 medical students studying at Pokara University in Nepal.The earthquake was felt in certain parts of India, however, Mahabodhi Society stated that no harm was caused to any Buddhist places of worship including Buddha Gaya (Bodh Gaya) and Baranas (Varanasi) in India.More information on the Nepal earthquake will be coming your way through our International news.Update : Sunday, 26 April 2015 - 12:47----------------------------------------------Sri Lankan Ambassador to Nepal W M Senevirathna stated that no Sri Lankans were affected by the severe earthquake which struck in the vicinity of the capital Kathmandu.The Ambassador speaking to our news team stated that a hotline has been set up to obtain information about Sri Lankans in Nepal.Accordingly the Sri Lankan Embassy can be reached by calling0097 7985 1020 057.Meanwhile, the Sri Lankan government has decided to provide relief and aid to the Nepal people who are affected by the earthquake.The Prime Minister’s office stated that upon discussions between the President and Prime Minister a Co-ordinating committee has been set up to look in to relief efforts.A C-130 Sri Lanka Air Force plane carrying 48 persons including Doctors, Engineers and Technicians left for Nepal at around 5 this morning.Another 180 Doctors from the Army are on standby to fly to Nepal in case the need arises.
1187.txt:The Tribhuwan International airport in Kathmandu was shut down for hours following the quake with flights canceled or delayed.
1189.txt:Two C-130 aircrafts have landed at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu and two more are expected to reach Kathmandu on April 27.
1189.txt:The Pakistani ambassador and other embassy officials were present at the airport to facilitate and extend logistical support to Pakistan relief assistance team.
118.txt:The Kathmandu airport has been temporarily shut down.
118.txt:Xie Bin, a Chinese tourist in Nepal, told Xinhua that his tourist group, comprised of about 200 Chinese citizens, was stranded in Kathmandu Airport. But no one was injured.
1192.txt:Two light helicopters were shuttling injured from base camp to a lower altitude, from where they could be evacuated back to the capital, emergency officials at Kathmandu airport said.
1198.txt:They assured the television station that they are safe but are currently staying at a garage at Nepal airport.
1198.txt:The Foreign Ministry did acknowledge that three Lebanese nationals are stranded at Kathmandu airport awaiting their evacuation after their flight was delayed due to an emergency, Voice of Lebanon radio (100.5) reported .
1198.txt:Nepal’s international airport was briefly shut down on Sunday when a powerful aftershock hit Kathmandu, forcing planes to turn around mid-flight, officials and reports said.
1198.txt:Tribhuvan International Airport general manager Birendra Prasad Shrestha said the runway had reopened after being closed for about an hour.
1198.txt:“The airport is open and functioning. We had closed the runway for an hour after the quake this afternoon, but we have resumed services,” Shrestha told AFP.
119.txt:The Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu was indefinitely shut on Saturday, resulting in the cancellation of all the eight subsequent return flights from India bound for the capital city.
119.txt:The airport, according to aviation officials in Delhi, was opened in the evening, but only for non-commercial and relief operations. Some airlines like SpiceJet said they had been asked by Indian authorities to keep an aircraft ready to lift supplies from here and bring back stranded passengers.
119.txt:An air force spokesperson said that the Kathmandu airport runway was intact and aircraft could land there. All civilian flights have been cancelled.
1201.txt:The airport is currently closed so they may have to cross the border into India if they can't get home soon.
1204.txt:He said that the international airport at Kathmandu was around 10km from the hotel and the journey of rescue was even more shocking.
1206.txt:Mr Erlich said Ms Kilgariff had spent the night sleeping on the street in Kathmandu before making her way to the airport, which was overwhelmed with people trying to get out of the devastated area.
1215.txt:Another doctor, Erabesh Gyawali, said he rushed to the hospital after the first tremor hit. He and his wife were riding their scooter when the earthquake struck and were thrown off, narrowly missing being hit by falling rubble. Pushpa Das, a Kathmandu labourer, was injured when a wall collapsed on him as he ran from his house. "It was very scary. The earth was moving," he told reporters as he waited for treatment outside one hospital. As he spoke, dozens more showed up with injuries, mostly from falling bricks. Kathmandu's international airport was shut down.
1220.txt:Shankar Koirala, Nepal's joint secretary of the Office of the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers, warmly welcomed the Chinese team at the Kathmandu airport, terming their arrival as a timely assistance.
1227.txt:NSC secretary Datuk Mohamed Thajudeen Abdul Wahab said it was decided that the Malaysians would be brought back in a Royal Malaysian Air Force (RMAF) Hercules C-130 aircraft which would depart the RMAF base in Subang this afternoon for the Kathmandu International Airport.
122.txt:Embassy staff were also at the airport in the Nepalese capital to help Chinese tourists secure flights, intervening after at least one Chinese carrier allegedly ramped up ticket prices.
122.txt:Liu advised mainland visitors stranded at the airport not to buy overpriced tickets, and those who had already bought them to tell the embassy because "the embassy and government will follow up seriously", Sohu reported.
122.txt:Liu told the Chinese military's online news outlet late yesterday that the embassy helped about 1,000 nationals return home, and more than 600 were still at the airport. About 1,000 more Chinese visitors were on their way to the airport.
1230.txt:Kathmandu airport crowded as people rush to leave after devastating quake - Xinhua
1230.txt:People are waiting outside the Tribhuvan International Airport of Kathmandu, Nepal for the earliest flights that would take them to safe areas on April 26, 2015. (Xinhua Photo)
1230.txt:KATHMANDU, April 26 (Xinhua) -- People in shock and panic have flocked in the Kathmandu airport on Sunday following a powerful earthquake that have killed over 1,800 in Nepal, while local residents stayed outdoors overnight for fear of aftershocks.
1230.txt:Since the violent earthquake struck Nepal on Saturday, panicked people have rushed to Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport, the sole international airport in Nepal, in attempts to leave the disaster-stricken city to safe areas.
1230.txt:Hours ago, the airport was temporarily shut down following the quake with flights canceled or delayed. Now it was opened to international search and rescue teams.
1231.txt:The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country's only international airport, which was briefly closed.
1232.txt:India has pulled out all stops to rescue people trapped in the rubble left by the devastating earthquake in Nepal. Civilian and military aircraft were pressed into service to transport relief material and ferry stranded citizens back home. Amid reports of mounting death toll on account of the Saturday tremor, relief operations had to be halted for a few hours after fresh quake forced authorities in Kathmandu close down the Tribhuvan International Airport. Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the developing situation today. The Indian Air Force heavy-lift transport aircraft have brought back 1,050 people so far, with 546 being evacuated by last night, Foreign Secretary S Jaishankar told the media at a joint conference along with Home Secretary LC Goyal, Defence Secretary RK Mathur, DG Indian Metrological Department LS Rathore and others. Modi said efforts should be on speeding up work to save people and evacuate them from Nepal. Foreign Secretary said it has been decided to send an inter-ministry team to Nepal to coordinate relief work. The Indian Army on Saturday sent a Major General to be the interface with the Nepal Army, while Director General of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) OP Singh is also there in Kathmandu. Jaishankar said 504 people arrived today in two planes and more were on their way back home. The government has asked the Indian Embassy in Nepal to hire 35 buses and evacuate people through the Raxaul and Sonali routes. He said while the roads are operating, movement is slow on account of traffic and hampered by availability of adequate buses and drivers in Kathmandu. A total of 19 Indian military aircraft (13 fixed wing and six helicopters) are currently deployed for rescue and relief work, while another six helicopters are on standby. Three civilian aircraft, two operated by Air India and one by Jet, also assisted in evacuation with the public sector Air India, lowering its fare to bare minimum, the Foreign Secretary said. Three army field hospitals are in operation along with an Engineering Task Force, while a team of civilian medical doctors also reached there with 2 tonnes of medical supplies organised by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The Indian Railways has sent 50 tonnes of drinking water, 10 tonnes of blankets and tents, and 22 tonnes of food material. Ten NDRF teams are already operating in Nepal, two each in Lalitpur and Kathmandu, three teams at Bhaktapur and remaining three are on standby. The Defence Secretary said while the NDRF DG was already in Kathmandu, reports so far said the NDRF personnel had rescued eight people and recovered 33 bodies.
1235.txt:All the stranded persons have been asked to contact Wing Commander Ravi Sharma (Phone no. 009779818700724) at Kathmandu airport for evacuation.
1236.txt:Image 15 of 58 Tents are seen from an airplane window in an open field next to Tribhuwan International Airport Sunday, April 26, 2015, a day after a massive earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal. Tents are seen from an airplane window in an open field next to Tribhuwan International Airport Sunday, April 26, 2015, a day after a massive earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal. Photo: Wally Santana, Associated Press
1236.txt:Image 17 of 58 Indian nationals wait in long lines trying to leave at the Tribhuwan International Airport a day after a massive earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, Sunday, April 26, 2015. Indian nationals wait in long lines trying to leave at the Tribhuwan International Airport a day after a massive earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, Sunday, April 26, 2015. Photo: Wally Santana, Associated Press
1236.txt:Image 18 of 58 A search dog of ISAR (International Search and Rescue) Germany is pictured on April 26, 2015 in the Fire Training Center at the airport in Frankfurt/Main prior to departure for Nepal to start a relief mission for the victims of the earthquake there. less A search dog of ISAR (International Search and Rescue) Germany is pictured on April 26, 2015 in the Fire Training Center at the airport in Frankfurt/Main prior to departure for Nepal to start a relief mission ... more Photo: Christoph Schmidt, AFP / Getty Images
1237.txt:Mahesh Kumar Maskey, Nepali Ambassador to China, saw off the rescue team at the airport. He extended gratitude to China on behalf of the Nepali government and people.
1246.txt:JNS.org – As an earthquake measuring 7.9 on the Richter scale continues to claim victims in Nepal—3,600 deaths as of Monday—a 260-member Israeli rescue team headed for Nepal to assist local authorities. The Israeli mission was delayed by 12 hours due to earthquake damage at the airport in Nepal’s capital of Kathmandu.
1247.txt:Kathmandu's international airport remains open, but flights have been disrupted.
1248.txt:As Kathmandu airport in Nepal remains closed following the devastating earthquake, the Israel Foreign Ministry is working to evacuate newborns to Israel.
1248.txt:Nine of the infants were born premature and one is in serious condition. The Foreign Ministry said that it planned to fly out the families in helicopters from Nepal to neighboring India because the airport in Kathmandu was closed.
1253.txt:The Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu is still closed due to security reasons. Telephone and internet are partially working and mobile networks is experiencing heavy congestion. Electricity supply has been disrupted in the Kathmandu valley
1259.txt:Air travellers going to Kathmandu from the city were also affected by the devastating earthquake on Saturday. After Kathmandu airport shut its operations due to the tremors felt in the country a number of flights from India had to be cancelled. The airport was open for operation only by 5pm.
1259.txt:Vishal Gondal, his wife and friends, all of whom were passengers on the Jet Airways flight 9W 266. The flight was diverted to Lucknow following the closure of Kathmandu airport
125.txt:He said they were now trying to get a flight home, but all the airports have been closed because of the earthquake.
1260.txt:"[We] will try to get them to the airport and/or consulate," he added.
1262.txt:But the airport was closed, roads and bridges damaged and tons of rubble are blocking the streets and alleys of Kathmandu. Water supply pipes, electricity generating sub-stations, bridges, treatment plants -- all these things will be affected, and food, water, fuel and medicines will be immediately in short-supply. From today, people will start skipping meals and to rely on friends and relatives for support. Some will be moving to areas they consider more safe, where they will set up camps. Others will choose to stay close to their belongings and shattered homes, perhaps waiting for missing relatives. They will start selling assets in "distress sales." They will use what food, cash and property they have just to get by. They will start borrowing. Many poor Nepalese will already be in debt.
1264.txt:Sniffer dog handler Birgit Ostendorf of Germany’s NGO organisation International Search and Rescue (ISAR- Germany) prepares her dog ‘Cooper’ to board their flight to Nepal from Frankfurt airport, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic
1264.txt:Indians fight during a queue for an aircraft back to their country outside Nepal’s Tribhuvan International Airport a day after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic
1264.txt:Tourists gather inside Nepal’s Tribhuvan International Airport a day after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic
1264.txt:Workers of the German Red Cross (DRK) prepare a load of humanitarian aid for victims of the earthquake in Nepal, in front of an aircraft at Schoenefeld airport outside Berlin April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic
1264.txt:Victims of Saturday’s earthquake rest inside an Indian Air Force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic
1264.txt:People wait outside the departure terminal at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015, following the April 25 earthquake. — Reuters pic
1266.txt:Most areas were without power and water Sunday, but with Kathamandu airport reopened, first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. Workers were sending out tents and relief goods in trucks and helicopters, said disaster management official Rameshwar Dangal.
1275.txt:Most areas were without power and water Sunday, but with Kathamandu airport reopened, first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. Workers were sending out tents and relief goods in trucks and helicopters, said disaster management official Rameshwar Dangal.
1279.txt:"Gift of the Givers is ready to respond; the restricting factors being the closure of Kathmandu Airport to commercial flights, the availability of visas to a neighbouring country and accessibility to Nepal through this neighbouring country," said Imitiaz Sooliman, the head of the organisation.
1280.txt:Two C-130 aircraft of the Pakistan Air Force (PAF) have landed at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu on Sunday and two more were expected to reach there on Monday, Dawn online reported.
1280.txt:The Pakistani ambassador and other embassy officials were present at the airport to extend logistical support to the relief team.
1285.txt:NEW DELHI: National carrier Air India resumed its flights to quake-hit Nepal with two services- one each from Delhi and Kolkata - leaving for Kathmandu early this morning.Both the flights left around 7.30am with 118 and 45 passengers on board each plane, an Air India spokesperson said.Air India operates three services to Kathmandu including two daily services from the national capital. The Kolkata-Kathmandu-Kolkata flight is, however, operated four times a week.Air India would also fly one additional flight, each from New Delhi and Kolkata with relief material along with the scheduled flights, the spokesperson said.These services are being operated to accommodate the passengers of the two scheduled flights, which were cancelled on Saturday after the Tribhuvan International Airport was closed for few hours due to the devastating earthquake, later in the day.Of the three regular services, Air India had operated only one flight on Saturday, which had departed much before the massive earthquake had hit the land-locked country.Besides Air India, other domestic carriers had also cancelled their services to Kathmandu.All these carriers are also expected to resume their flights to Kathmandu today.Domestic airlines flying to Nepal have also decided to waive all cancellation, date change or refund charges for Kathmandu flights up to a week.Besides Air India, private carriers Jet Airways, IndiGo and SpiceJet also fly to Kathmandu.
1292.txt:Most areas were without power and water Sunday, but with Kathamandu airport reopened, first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. Workers were sending out tents and relief goods in trucks and helicopters, said disaster management official Rameshwar Dangal.
1293.txt:India has separately pressed civilian aircraft into service to evacuate stranded nationals, many of whom have been camping at Kathmandu’s airport since Saturday.
1296.txt:With Kathmandu airport reopened, the first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. The first to respond were Nepal’s neighbors - India, China and Pakistan, all of which have been jockeying for influence over the landlocked nation. Still, Nepal remains closest to India with which it shares deep political, cultural and religious ties.
1296.txt:Mukesh Kafle, the head of the Nepal Electricity Authority, said power has been restored fully to main government offices, the airport and hospitals.
129.txt:Initially measured at 7.5 magnitude, the quake was later revised to 7.9, with a depth of 15 kilometres. National radio warned people to stay outdoors and keep calm as more aftershocks were feared. The Tribhuvan International Airport has been closed.
1300.txt:Nepal's only international airport, in Kathmandu, was closed following the quake and the prime minister, Sushil Koirala, was unable to return to the country from a summit in Jakarta.
1301.txt:Two C-130 aircrafts have landed at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu and two more are expected to reach Kathmandu on April 27.
1301.txt:The Pakistani ambassador and other embassy officials were present at the airport to facilitate and extend logistical support to Pakistan relief assistance team.
1302.txt:ISLAMABAD - As many as four aircraft with relief supplies for quake-affected Nepal have been readied at the Islamabad airport on Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif’s orders and will take off as soon as clearance is received from the Kathmandu airport.This was revealed by Prime Minister’s House spokesman in a statement on Saturday evening. Relief goods, including medicines, doctors, nurses, tents, blankets and others, are being sent to Kathmandu on the PM’s directions. These relief goods will reach the Nepalese capital as soon as the airport becomes functional. The PM has also directed the Foreign Office to keep him updated of the evolving situation in Nepal and relief needs of the people.PM Sharif spoke to his Nepalese counterpart Sushil Koirala from London and extended to him his deep condolences on the massive earthquake, resulting in extensive loss of lives and property. Earlier, in his message, Sharif expressed his deep shock over the reports of the tragic earthquake. “The government of Pakistan and its people extend their heartfelt condolences and sympathies to the governments and the peoples of Nepal and India on the tragedy that has caused loss of lives and property,” said the prime minister. “The government and people of Pakistan express solidarity with the affected people of Nepal and India and offer all possible help that may be required in their hour of grief.” The federal government has instructed its missions in the two countries to approach their respective host governments to ascertain the damages caused and the requirements of relief assistance. The National Disaster Management Authority of Pakistan has been readied to take relief assistance on a short notice.PAKISTANI NATIONALS SAFE, SAYS FO: Foreign Office Spokesperson Tasneem Aslam Saturday said Pakistani nationals are safe in Nepal. She said: “We are constantly in contact with the Pakistan Embassy in Nepal and no casualty of any Pakistani national was registered in the neighbouring country.
1309.txt:Most of the area were without power and water Sunday, but with Kathamandu airport reopened, first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. Workers were sending out tents and relief goods in trucks and helicopters, said disaster management official Rameshwar Dangal.
1319.txt:Volunteers from British charity Search and Rescue Assistance in Disasters (SARAID) check their equipment at Heathrow airport
1319.txt:"We are facing huge logistical difficulties. As well as roads being closed, aftershocks have prevented planes from landing at Kathmandu airport."
1322.txt:Plan International is receiving reports of widespread devastation in remote districts located just west of the earthquake’s epicenter, with a further 6.7-magnitude aftershock felt in the region Sunday afternoon, closing the Kathmandu airport and hampering the delivery of aid.
1325.txt:JNS.org – As an earthquake measuring 7.9 on the Richter scale continues to claim victims in Nepal—3,600 deaths as of Monday—a 260-member Israeli rescue team headed for Nepal to assist local authorities. The Israeli mission was delayed by 12 hours due to earthquake damage at the airport in Nepal’s capital of Kathmandu.
1328.txt:Twenty-two climbers had been ferried to a lower altitude, from where the first 18 would be evacuated to Kathmandu by a heavy helicopter that took off from the capital's airport in the morning after heavy clouds cleared.
132.txt:When asked about international flights bound for Kathmandu being diverted to India, Sharma said the flights are being diverted to Delhi and some other airports close to the Nepal capital.
1337.txt:Some of the 62 members of the Dutch Urban Search and Rescue team get ready to leave with their tracker dogs for Nepal to help search for victims after the earthquake at Eindhoven Airport, on April 26, 2015. (Photo: Evert-Jan Daniels, AFP/Getty Images)
133.txt:The second batch of 100 Indians arrived in IAF's C-17 aircraft landed at Palam airport at around 0020 hours, officials said.
1342.txt:He went on to document Kathmandu and Lukla, Nepal. “The most dangerous airport in the world (due to lack of sufficient runway),” he wrote of Lukla, accompanying a cockpit photo of a short runway surrounded by buildings.
1344.txt:Charities assembled disaster teams based on the assumption that sanitation, shelter and medical help are urgently required but the most convenient pathway into Nepal -- one of the world's poorest countries -- was not available because the international airport in Kathmandu was shut down.
1347.txt:At the moment, hospitals are being over run with patients, airports remain closed and there's concerns of water and food shortages, but rescue crews continue to dig searching for any signs of life.
134.txt:The Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu was indefinitely shut on Saturday, resulting in the cancellation of all the eight subsequent return flights from India bound for the capital city.
134.txt:The airport, according to aviation officials in Delhi, was opened in the evening, but only for non-commercial and relief operations. Some airlines like SpiceJet said they had been asked by Indian authorities to keep an aircraft ready to lift supplies from here and bring back stranded passengers.
134.txt:An air force spokesperson said that the Kathmandu airport runway was intact and aircraft could land there. All civilian flights have been cancelled.
1351.txt:ICIMOD scientists are working with traffic controllers at the airport by providing assistance to assess weather and terrain conditions. We have sent teams of volunteers to aid relief efforts in nearby villages, and are also talking to government agencies about helping to rebuild some of the mountain villages that we work with.
1352.txt:A disaster response team from DHL has also been deployed to Nepal to provide logistics support at Tribhuvan Kathmandu International Airport.
1352.txt:'Our team comprises highly trained volunteers, who provide logistical expertise to help co-ordinate the relief aid at the airport for further distribution to the victims in the speediest manner possible,' said DHL Group chief executive Frank Appel.
1354.txt:Substantial logistical hurdles remain, but there were hopeful signs as Kathmandu's international airport reopened after Saturday's crushing earthquake, and some aid vehicles were able to travel overland from Indian to the stricken Nepalese city of Pokhara.
1354.txt:"That means supplies could potentially come in overland from India. That is a positive sign," said Ben Pickering, Save the Children's humanitarian adviser in Britain. "The airport opening is a small miracle."
1354.txt:He cautioned that chaotic conditions may create a bottleneck at the airport as governments and aid agencies try to bring in personnel and supplies in the coming days.
1354.txt:Volunteers from various British charities gathered at London's Heathrow Airport getting ready for overnight flights to the Nepal region.
1356.txt:In-byung, second from left, director of the hospital's emergency medical center, at Incheon International Airport, Monday before leaving for Nepal for relief work. / Courtesy of Myongji Hospital
1357.txt:In 2009, FOX6 was at the airport when Breckheimer returned home a wounded warrior. He was hit by an IED and nearly lost his leg.
1361.txt:An Indian army helicopter is parked on the tarmac of the Katmandu international airport the day after the earthquake. (Photo: Bernat Armangue, AP)
1363.txt:Nepal races to save victims A Nepalese villager injured in an earthquake holds her son as they sit inside an Indian Army helicopter after being evacuated from Lapu in Gorkha. Picture: AFP Nepalese villagers shelter from rain during relief operations following an earthquake at Lapu in Gorkha. Picture: AFP A Nepalese resident injured in the earthquake is carried by a relative towards an Indian Army helicopter. Picture: AFP Damaged houses are seen from an Indian Army helicopter following an earthquake in the Nepalese area of Gorkha . Picture: AFP A Nepalese policeman walks among earthquake debris in the Nepalese capital Kathmandu. Picture: AFP +22 images The uncle of a 12-year-old girl pulled from a collapsed home grieves as he wraps her body in Kathmandu, Nepal. Picture: AP Rescue teams carry a body dug out of the collapsed Sitapyla church in Kathmandu. Picture: AP Nepalese and Indian rescue teams remove a body from the collapsed Sitapyla church in Kathmandu. Picture: AP Volunteers and emergency workers search for bodies buried under the debris of one of the temples at Basantapur Durbar Square n Kathmandu. Picture: Getty Images Rescue personnel observe damaged buildings in Bhaktapur, on the outskirts of Kathmandu. Picture: AFP A woman carries a child next to collapsed houses in Bhaktapur, on the outskirts of Kathmandu. Picture: AFP A Nepalese man consoles his friend during the cremation of his relative killed in the recent earthquake, at the Pashupatinath temple, on the banks of Bagmati river, in Kathmandu. Picture: AP Suresh, 16, right, watches as a priest prepares the funeral pyre for his younger brother Umesh, 13, killed in Saturday’s earthquake. Picture: AP The official death toll soared past 4000, even without a full accounting from vulnerable mountain villages that rescue workers were still struggling to reach two days after the disaster. Picture: AP Israeli women cuddle a newborn baby of a homosexual couple who was born in Nepal to a surrogate mother after they were repatriated to Israel from quake-hit Nepal, at Tel Aviv airport. Picture: AFP A man cries during the funeral of his sister, a victim of Saturday’s earthquake, at the Pashupatinath temple, on the banks of Bagmati river, in Kathmandu, Nepal. Picture: AP Damaged roads are seen after an earthquake on the outskirts of Kathmandu. International aid groups and governments intensified efforts to get rescuers and supplies into earthquake-hit Nepal, but severed communications and landslides in the Himalayan nation posed formidable challenges to the relief effort. Picture: AFP People burn the bodies of earthquake victims at a mass cremation in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP Nepalese residents mourn the death of a relative following an earthquake, at a mass cremation in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP Nepalese rescue personnel rescue a trapped earthquake survivor as his friend lies dead next to him. Picture: AFP A Nepalese resident mourns the death of a relative following an earthquake in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP Nepalese resident Suresh Parihar plays with his 8-month-old daughter Sandhaya as he is treated for injuries sustained in an earthquake at a city hospital in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP An injured person is carried by rescue members to be airlifted by rescue helicopter at Everest Base Camp. Picture: AFP Rescuers carry a sherpa injured by an avalanche that flattened parts of Everest Base Camp. Picture: AFP A cloud of snow and debris triggered by an earthquake flies towards Everest Base Camp, moments ahead of flattening part of the camp in the Himalayas. Picture: AFP People clear rubble in Kathmandu’s Durbar Square, a UNESCO World Heritage Site that was severely damaged by the earthquake. Picture: AFP A Nepalese man and woman hold each other in Kathmandu’s Durbar Square. Picture: AFP Rescuers tend to a sherpa injured by an avalanche that flattened parts of Everest Base Camp. Picture: AFP
1367.txt:However, there has been little sign of international assistance on the ground so far, with some aid flights prevented from landing by aftershocks that closed Kathmandu's main Tribhuban International Airport several times on Sunday.
1368.txt:People wait outside the departure terminal at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015. A 7.9 magnitude earthquake killed more than 2,400 people and devastated Kathmandu valley on April 25, 2015. Photo: REUTERS/Danish Siddiqui
1376.txt:The IFRC is mobilising resources from its hubs in New Delhi, Kuala Lumpur and Bangkok, and is releasing funds from its Disaster Response Emergency Fund to support the initial emergency response. International assistance is hindered by the closure of the Kathmandu airport.
1377.txt:Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who was attending a summit in Jakarta, tried to rush back home, but made it as far as Bangkok where his connecting flight to Kathmandu was canceled because the capital’s international airport was shut down for commercial flights.
1379.txt:http://www.clickittefaq.com/in-the-news/bd-opens-airports-for-nepal-aid/
1379.txt:BD opens airports for Nepal aid
1379.txt:The airports of Bangladesh can be used by foreign countries to send aid to Nepal.
1379.txt:The decision was taken during the cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Monday afternoon. After the meeting, Primary and Mass Education Minister Mustafizar Rahman Fizar stated, “Foreign countries can use the airports if they need to send relief materials to Nepal.”
1380.txt:A group of U.S. climbers was caught climbing Mt. Everest when the earthquake and avalanche hit, and today found themselves with no way down.Garrett Madison of Madison Mountaineering said the group managed to make it to Camp 2 after the avalanche, but they learned that their base camp had been devastated and one of their members, "our beloved doctor Eve Girawong" had died.The group managed to get to Camp 2, but then found that the rest of the route down the mountain was impassable."We have been up here at Camp 2 hanging tough but we are running low on food and fuel and we have to get down," Madison said. "There's no path or route through the Khumbu icefall at this point in time. The teams that have tried to make their way through the icefall today were unsuccessful and it will not be attempting again in the future. So at this point our only option to get down is by helicopter evacuation."He said they hoped to be able to make it to the lower Camp 1, where it would be possible for them to be evacuated by heicopter.Madison's story was one of several coming off the world's highest peak after the 7.8-magnitude earthquake Saturday unleashed an avalanche that caught climbers just as the climbing season was nearing an end.Ashleigh Stumler had just left a Nepali village near Mt. Everest when she said the ground started shaking so violently she thought she was having a dizzy spell and grabbed onto a tree, and then she heard the thunderous sound of a landslide.Stumler, from Charlotte, North Carolina, said she and a woman from Washington, who were on a planned two-week trek, were not far from the village of Pheriche -- a lodge for climbers on their way to Mt. Everest Base Camp -- when the shaking started."At first I was confused on what was happening but holding onto a tree while the earth around us was violently shaking," Stumler told ABC News via email. "We heard a nearby landslide and started worrying about friends that we had met along the way."The magnitude-7.8 quake toppled temples and triggered an avalanche on Mt. Everest. A magnitude-6.6 aftershock hit about an hour after the initial earthquake and smaller aftershocks followed in the region for hours.Stumler was not injured and said she hopes to get to Kathmandu, Nepal 's capital, to help provide support."The situation is feeling increasingly more serious than the moment I was clinging to a tree yesterday," she wrote. "Today's tremor seemed to put my body into some kind of survival mode while desperately trying to reach Lukla [a town with an airport less than 20 miles from Everest] in hopes of getting out."Another survivor, Bhim Bahadur Khatri, told the Associated Press he was in a tent at Mt. Everest when the quake struck."We all rushed out to the open and the next moment a huge wall of snow just piled on me," he said. "I managed to dig out of what could easily have been my grave. I wiggled and used my hands as claws to dig as much as I could. I was suffocating, I could not breathe. But I knew I had to survive."He was flown to Kathmandu and taken to a hospital, the AP reported.The quake hit about 50 miles northwest of Kathmandu just before noon local time Saturday, according to the U.S. Geological Survey.At least 2,100 people have been killed in Nepal, the country's Interior Ministry told ABC News on Sunday.More than 1,000 others were injured, said the country's finance minister, Ram Sharan Mahat.At least 51 were also killed in India , 17 in Tibet , two in Bangladesh and two Chinese citizens died at the Nepal-China border.
1385.txt:Amber said they were fine well, and they weren't harmed at all. They'd been walking quite a ways and their goal is to get to the airport to hurry up and get home.
1391.txt:A Sherpa cook, Bhim Bahadur Khadtri, 35, said he was preparing a meal when the avalanche rumbled. "We all rushed out to the open and the next moment a huge wall of snow just piled on me," he told the AP in brief airport interview before he was driven to a hospital. "I managed to dig out of what could easily have been my grave. I wiggled and used my hands as claws to dig as much as I could. I was suffocating, I could not breathe. But I knew I had to survive."
1391.txt:American Michael Churton, injured at Everest Base Camp, arrives at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015. x American Michael Churton, injured at Everest Base Camp, arrives at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015.
1394.txt:The Kathmandu airport, which was shut down for hours following Saturday's devastating tremor, has reopened for the arrival of foreign aids.
1397.txt:Kathmandu’s small airport — the main lifeline for the capital — struggled to handle the influx of flights, and many workers were not at their posts; they were either casualties of the quake or dealing with the aftermath. Thousands more people crowded in, hoping for a flight out. Planes brought sobering reminders that the full reckoning of the tragedy is not over: cadaver-sniffing dogs from India and equipment from Europe and elsewhere for field hospitals.
139.txt:The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country's only international airport which was briefly closed.
1407.txt:A child injured in Saturday's earthquake, is carried by a Nepalese soldier after being evacuated as they wait to disembark from an Indian Air Force helicopter at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal. Photo: AP
1407.txt:Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded man on a makeshift stretcher to a waiting Indian Air Force helicopter as they evacuate victims of Saturday's earthquake from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal. Photo: AP
1407.txt:Kathmandu's international airport closed temporarily after the initial quake and again after a 6.7 magnitude aftershock on Sunday. Television images showed tourists camped outside the airport awaiting flights to leave.
140.txt:"We operated three flights to Kathmandu. While the morning flight from Delhi operated as per the schedule, the two other services, one from Delhi and another from Kolkata are on hold as of now. We will operate them as soon as we get a nod from the aviation authorities in Kathmandu," an Air India spokesperson told PTI here.Budget carrier SpiceJet and IndiGo have also decided not to operate till they get a clearance from the Nepal government."As of now we are not operating to Nepal because of the runway closure," a SpiceJet official said."We have offered the cargo-belly space to the NGOs and other agencies for transporting relief material free of cost," he added.IndiGo said that it had called back its Delhi-Kathmandu flight."Kathmandu Airport is shut. We are in crisis response mode," IndiGo president Aditya Ghosh said."In this sort of situation, one can't predict when the operations would be resumed. Our top priority right now is safety of our staff and passengers," he said.Indigo has also waived cancellation charges for its flights to Nepal for one week, Ghosh added.Jet Airways spokesperson said its flight which was on its way to Kathmandu, that is diverted to Lucknow, would come back to Mumbai, while its Delhi-Kathmandu-Delhi flight has been cancelled.A powerful 7.9 magnitude earthquake struck Nepal on Saturday, causing massive damage in the capital Kathmandu with strong tremors felt across neighbouring countries.
1412.txt:Teams equipped with heavy cutting gear and relief supplies were landing round the clock at the country’s only international airport on the outskirts of Kathmandu, which has been devastated by Saturday’s 7.8 magnitude quake.
1416.txt:With Kathmandu airport reopened, the first aid flights began delivering supplies. China was among the first to respond, along with India and Pakistan.
1417.txt:9.10 pm: India steps up relief work in Nepal. Land routes operational as airport gets congested
1417.txt:2.45 pm: IAF's C-17 carrying relief material to quake-hit Nepal returns to Palam due to congestion at Kathmandu airport
1418.txt:Jamie Lashmar, 32, posted a picture of his father on his Facebook page at Kathmandu airport late on Sunday local time, saying they were expecting to have a two-day wait for a flight home.
141.txt:Local hospitals were already filling with injured residents, and Kathmandu’s international airport was shut down, hampering initial relief efforts in the isolated mountainous country.
1423.txt:A CNN team at Kathmandu’s main airport on Monday saw large numbers of cargo planes on the tarmac, but also witnessed chaotic scenes as officials struggled to cope with the influx of aid and the large numbers of people trying get out of the country.
1423.txt:The airport was also facing some of the shortages afflicting the disaster-hit nation.
1423.txt:“Even at the airport in Kathmandu, there is no drinking water or food or other provisions available, so one can imagine what might be happening in other parts of the country,” said Tak of Save the Children.
1427.txt:Image: Members of Germany's NGO organistation International Search and Rescue (ISAR- Germany) prepare sniffer dog 'Apache' to board their flight to Nepal from Frankfurt airport. Photograph: Wolfgang Rattay/Reuters
1433.txt:Goodbyes at the airport are rarely easy.
1433.txt:It was an especially difficult one Sunday afternoon at Sea-Tac Airport, as Gillanders and his team with Empact Northwest head to Nepal, where a devastating earthquake has killed thousands already and aftershocks continue to threaten survivors.
1439.txt:Greene says the nonprofit last traveled to Nepal in 2011. However, this trip may force staff members to travel through India since flights to the airport in Nepal's capital city are backlogged.
143.txt:When asked about international flights bound for Kathmandu being diverted to India, he said the flights are being diverted to Delhi and some other airports close to the Nepal capital.
1444.txt:The UK’s International Search and Rescue response teamflew from Stansted Airport at 9.15pm last night and are scheduled to land in Nepal’s capital Kathmandu later today.
1446.txt:Chinese Ambassador to Nepal Wu Chuntai (C) poses for photos with members of a Chinese medical team at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, capitol of Nepal, April 27, 2015. A 58-strong Chinese Government Medical team arrived in Nepal Monday morning to carry out humanitarian mission after the country was struck by a powerful earthquake at midday Saturday. (Xinhua/Zhou Shengping)
1449.txt:A small IAF plane was the first carrier to arrive back in Israel from Nepal. It landed at a military base early Monday. On board were a number of wounded Israelis and premature babies of Israeli parents who were born to surrogate Nepalese mothers.A Magen David Adom plane with five more babies born to surrogate mothers and their Israeli families landed at Sde Dov Airport at noon on Monday. Over a dozen such babies still need to be airlifted home.Three IAF Hercules planes left for Nepal on Monday as did two El Al jumbo jets with missions jointly organized by the IDF and the Foreign Ministry.The large carriers with 260 personnel on board also transported 95 tons of equipment including a field hospital with a ward for premature babies. Rescuers brought with them cutting equipment, electronic devices to help find victims trapped under the rubble, generators, lighting equipment, and more.When the large planes leave Nepal they hope to carry some of the100 Israelis in the Chabad House in Kathmandu and another 150 who have sought refuge in the Israeli Embassy.Since Saturday the Foreign Ministry has helped locate 150 missing Israelis, but there are still 100 who are unaccounted for.Israel is also working with the Nepalese government to send helicopters to more remote areas, such as the Frozen Lakes, to find stranded Israelis who were in the midst of treks when the quake struck.On Sunday, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu spoke with the delegation headed by Col. Yoram Laredo, who told Netanyahu that an advance team had already landed and was preparing the infrastructure for the arrival of their larger mission.Netanyahu said, “You are being sent on an important mission. This is the true face of Israel – a country that offers aid over any distance at such moments. Good luck. We are counting on you.”Several hours later, Dr. Rafi Strugo, director of MDA’s medical division told The Jerusalem Post that he and another physician and 10 paramedics had just arrived at the Kathmandu airport on a plane from Israel.“We landed at night, so we couldn’t see very much from the air, but there were some lights below,” he said. “From the ground, the airport looks okay. We will now divide up between the Israel Embassy and Chabad house and expect to be here for at least a week.”The MDA team will provide triage-style emergency first aid to the injured, wherever they are located; create a first-aid station where MDA can provide treatment for the first 48 hours by providing painkillers, antibiotics, bandages and preparing severely injured victims for transport to area hospitals; and help the “second wave” of victims – those who arrive three or four days later – by opening and operating a field hospital.MDA officials said its medical delegation flew directly to Kathmandu to set up a base to help the Israelis and the locals.The situation is complicated by avalanches and aftershocks.The delegation includes doctors, paramedics and logistical experts who brought with them drugs and medical equipment including incubators and baby food.The MDA team includes a wide range of experts with disaster-response experience in Japan, Haiti and the Philippines.A primary focus will be setting up local aid stations in outlying regions as well as extricating and evacuating victims to the stations.It is also working to help return some two dozen Israeli couples, most of them homosexuals, who went to Nepal to have a baby via a woman surrogate.The pregnant women and the newborns, including premature babies, have to be helped and brought back from areas devastated by the quake.MDA has opened a fund for donations to help the locals and contributions can be sent to a special bank account – Survivors of the Nepal Earthquake at Bank Discount (#11), Yad Eliahu Branch (151), account number 22016.Meanwhile, the World Health Organization has sent a first shipment of medications and medical supplies worth $175,000 to Nepal. The organization said this would cover the needs of 40,000 people for three months.Other than the injured, those rendered homeless by the earthquake are in need of immediate support for regular public health services, water and sanitation and psychological and social support to deal with the trauma caused by the tragedy, the WHO said.In addition to Israel, teams from India, Pakistan, the United States and China were already on the spot to help, according to the UN.Other international search teams are scheduled to arrive in Kathmandu, with units from Japan, the US and Britain equipped with sniffer dogs and equipment for heavy lifting.At least 6,000 people have been injured, according to the Nepalese government, and treating them and other survivors who are pulled from the wreckage remains a serious challenge.“The priority remains saving lives and immediate search and rescue ongoing,” said a report from the office of the UN Resident Coordinator in Nepal.Thousands of people in Kathmandu remained outside on Sunday in chilly temperatures and patchy rain, too afraid to return to their homes damaged by earthquake.The 7.9 magnitude earthquake, the strongest since 1934 when a similar intensity quake killed more than 10,000 people, struck the densely populated Kathmandu Valley on Saturday noon local time.There has been widespread damage and destruction of buildings, roads and other infrastructure, said aid workers, adding that more than 60 aftershocks, including a 6.7 magnitude quake on Sunday, had led to further devastation.The first 96 hours after the quake were critical, they said.“It’s already been over 24 hours.Every minute is precious for the people who are trapped under the rubble of buildings,” said Unni Krishnan, head of disaster response and preparedness for Plan International. “They are likely to be dehydrated, have breathing difficulties due to a lack of oxygen, injuries to head and spine and may be losing blood.”In Kathmandu Valley, hospitals are overcrowded and are running out of room for storing dead bodies, said aid workers, adding that hospitals were also running short of emergency supplies.Some are treating people in the streets.The UN Children’s Fund estimates at least 940,000 children have been severely affected in the area that includes Dhading, Gorkha, Rasuwa, Sindhupalchowk and Kathmandu districts.“This crisis leaves children particularly vulnerable – limited access to safe water and sanitation will put children at great risk from waterborne diseases, while some children may have become separated from their families,” UNICEF said.It has been difficult to assess the full scale of the disaster as many areas outside of Kathmandu are inaccessible due to damaged roads and landslides.Communications and electricity are intermittent.Compounding the matter, aid workers say their staff and even those trained in disaster response were themselves traumatized by the disaster and series of aftershocks, with some seeing their family members dying and their property destroyed.Assessments and coordination between aid agencies led by the Nepalese government are beginning to get underway and aid workers hoped to begin delivering emergency food rations, clean drinking water, blankets and tarpaulin sheets to survivors on Monday.Relief camps are likely to be established in coming days.“Hundreds of thousands are sleeping out in the open as they are too scared to go back in a building because of all the aftershocks,” said Oxfam India’s humanitarian manager Zubin Zaman.“It is cold, it is dark and it is now raining. They have no protection, no shelter. We need to move quickly.”Reuters contributed to this report.
1450.txt:The UN World Food Program says its logistics and emergency response teams have arrived in Kathmandu. It is helping to restore communication lines and power at the Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport. Click here to donate to WFP's cause.
1453.txt:Nepal races to save victims A Nepalese villager injured in an earthquake holds her son as they sit inside an Indian Army helicopter after being evacuated from Lapu in Gorkha. Picture: AFP Nepalese villagers shelter from rain during relief operations following an earthquake at Lapu in Gorkha. Picture: AFP A Nepalese resident injured in the earthquake is carried by a relative towards an Indian Army helicopter. Picture: AFP Damaged houses are seen from an Indian Army helicopter following an earthquake in the Nepalese area of Gorkha . Picture: AFP A Nepalese policeman walks among earthquake debris in the Nepalese capital Kathmandu. Picture: AFP +22 images The uncle of a 12-year-old girl pulled from a collapsed home grieves as he wraps her body in Kathmandu, Nepal. Picture: AP Rescue teams carry a body dug out of the collapsed Sitapyla church in Kathmandu. Picture: AP Nepalese and Indian rescue teams remove a body from the collapsed Sitapyla church in Kathmandu. Picture: AP Volunteers and emergency workers search for bodies buried under the debris of one of the temples at Basantapur Durbar Square n Kathmandu. Picture: Getty Images Rescue personnel observe damaged buildings in Bhaktapur, on the outskirts of Kathmandu. Picture: AFP A woman carries a child next to collapsed houses in Bhaktapur, on the outskirts of Kathmandu. Picture: AFP A Nepalese man consoles his friend during the cremation of his relative killed in the recent earthquake, at the Pashupatinath temple, on the banks of Bagmati river, in Kathmandu. Picture: AP Suresh, 16, right, watches as a priest prepares the funeral pyre for his younger brother Umesh, 13, killed in Saturday’s earthquake. Picture: AP The official death toll soared past 4000, even without a full accounting from vulnerable mountain villages that rescue workers were still struggling to reach two days after the disaster. Picture: AP Israeli women cuddle a newborn baby of a homosexual couple who was born in Nepal to a surrogate mother after they were repatriated to Israel from quake-hit Nepal, at Tel Aviv airport. Picture: AFP A man cries during the funeral of his sister, a victim of Saturday’s earthquake, at the Pashupatinath temple, on the banks of Bagmati river, in Kathmandu, Nepal. Picture: AP Damaged roads are seen after an earthquake on the outskirts of Kathmandu. International aid groups and governments intensified efforts to get rescuers and supplies into earthquake-hit Nepal, but severed communications and landslides in the Himalayan nation posed formidable challenges to the relief effort. Picture: AFP People burn the bodies of earthquake victims at a mass cremation in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP Nepalese residents mourn the death of a relative following an earthquake, at a mass cremation in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP Nepalese rescue personnel rescue a trapped earthquake survivor as his friend lies dead next to him. Picture: AFP A Nepalese resident mourns the death of a relative following an earthquake in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP Nepalese resident Suresh Parihar plays with his 8-month-old daughter Sandhaya as he is treated for injuries sustained in an earthquake at a city hospital in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP An injured person is carried by rescue members to be airlifted by rescue helicopter at Everest Base Camp. Picture: AFP Rescuers carry a sherpa injured by an avalanche that flattened parts of Everest Base Camp. Picture: AFP A cloud of snow and debris triggered by an earthquake flies towards Everest Base Camp, moments ahead of flattening part of the camp in the Himalayas. Picture: AFP People clear rubble in Kathmandu’s Durbar Square, a UNESCO World Heritage Site that was severely damaged by the earthquake. Picture: AFP A Nepalese man and woman hold each other in Kathmandu’s Durbar Square. Picture: AFP Rescuers tend to a sherpa injured by an avalanche that flattened parts of Everest Base Camp. Picture: AFP
1454.txt:Kathmandu’s international airport closed temporarily after the initial quake and again after a 6.7 magnitude aftershock on Sunday. Television images showed tourists camped outside the airport awaiting flights to leave.
1456.txt:The capital's airport was so congested with military planes attempting to land that a flight carrying 70 members of Japan's national search-and-rescue team circled futilely and eventually had to be rerouted to Kolkata for refueling.
1456.txt:Nepali passengers on the plane said they had received text messages from those at Kathmandu airport informing them of a chaotic situation there, with Indian nationals overwhelming the facility, hoping to get on evacuation flights.
145.txt:The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country's only international airport which was briefly closed.
1462.txt:Keith and Nan Jensen were at the airport to return to Cincinnati Saturday night when a second earthquake of a 6.5 magnitude struck India. Their flights were diverted and hotels near the airport were booked full.
1465.txt:Photo: Prakash Mathema, AFP / Getty Images Image 1 of / 9 Caption Close Image 1 of 9 Nepalese residents mourn the death of a relative following an earthquake, at a mass cremation in Kathmandu. Nepalese residents mourn the death of a relative following an earthquake, at a mass cremation in Kathmandu. Photo: Prakash Mathema, AFP / Getty Images Image 2 of 9 Rescuers search a shattered building in Kathmandu for survivors as aftershocks roll through Nepal. Rescuers search a shattered building in Kathmandu for survivors as aftershocks roll through Nepal. Photo: Manish Swarup, Associated Press Image 3 of 9 A Nepalese mourns the death of a relative following an earthquake in Kathmandu. A Nepalese mourns the death of a relative following an earthquake in Kathmandu. Photo: Prakash Mathema, AFP / Getty Images Image 4 of 9 Nepalese rescue personnel help a trapped earthquake survivor with a corpse lying next to him in the aftermath of the Nepal quake. Nepalese rescue personnel help a trapped earthquake survivor with a corpse lying next to him in the aftermath of the Nepal quake. Photo: Prakash Mathema, AFP / Getty Images Image 5 of 9 Nepalese policemen stand on a structure almost reduced to rubble in Saturday’s earthquake at Basantapur Durbar Square in Kathmandu. Nepalese policemen stand on a structure almost reduced to rubble in Saturday’s earthquake at Basantapur Durbar Square in Kathmandu. Photo: Bernat Armangue, Associated Press Image 6 of 9 Tents are seen from an airplane window in an open field next to Tribhuwan International Airport Sunday, a day after a massive earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal. Tents are seen from an airplane window in an open field next to Tribhuwan International Airport Sunday, a day after a massive earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal. Photo: Wally Santana, Associated Press Image 7 of 9 Indian residents rest and sleep in a football field in Siliguri after a 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit the region. Indian residents rest and sleep in a football field in Siliguri after a 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit the region. Photo: Diptendu Dutta, AFP / Getty Images Image 8 of 9 Damaged roads are seen after an earthquake on the outskirts of Kathmandu. Damaged roads are seen after an earthquake on the outskirts of Kathmandu. Photo: Prakash Singh, AFP / Getty Images Image 9 of 9 Nepal quake toll rises; rescuers struggle to reach remote sites 1 / 9 Back to Gallery
1468.txt:The first members of IOM's surge team arrived in Kathmandu this morning, to a scene of frantic activity, with dozens of search and rescue teams, military planes and helicopters, and hundreds of responders at the airport.
1470.txt:Teams equipped with heavy cutting gear and relief supplies were landing round the clock at the nation’s only international airport, on the outskirts of Kathmandu which has been devastated by Saturday’s 7.8 magnitude quake.
1474.txt:Help arrived from many corners of the globe with rescue teams accompanied by heavy cutting gear and sniffer dogs landing around the clock at the country's only international airport on the outskirts of Kathmandu.
1475.txt:http://7online.com/news/americans-stuck-in-nepal-at-embassy-airport/683798/
1475.txt:Americans Stuck in Nepal at Embassy, Airport
1475.txt:Hundreds of American citizens are stranded in Nepal, with many sheltered at the U.S. Embassy and others desperately looking for flights at the Kathmandu airport, in the wake of the devastating 7.8-magnitude earthquake this weekend.Eighty-five American citizens are sheltering in the embassy, according to the U.S. State Department , while another 220 Americans are at the exclusive American Club in Kathmandu.The State Department said today that four Americans were killed in Nepal, all in the Everest base camp area.There have been hundreds of inquiries about the welfare and whereabouts of American citizens, according to the U.S. Embassy in Kathmandu. The State Department estimates there were thousands of Americans in Nepal when the earthquake struck, but the department said it does not have authoritative numbers for missing Americans.About 3,000 U.S. citizens reside in Nepal, and 3,000 to 4,000 Americans usually visit the country during this tourism season, according to Ineke Stoneham, press and information officer with the public affairs section for the U.S. Embassy Kathmandu.Many Americans, including Alex Diaz of New York, are waiting at the Kathmandu airport, which Diaz described as a "complete madhouse."Diaz told ABC News some people have been stranded at the terminal for days where they are sitting and tracking flights."Every so often one lands and that airline's people scuttle to the super crowded gates or they run out of fuel and divert and everyone madly dashes out to the ticket counters," Diaz said. "You just don't know which ones will leave."But unlike those at the Kathmandu airport looking to flee, Chicago native Ayal Weiner-Kaplow, who's now in Kathmandu, says he plans to stay to help with the recovery."I've been here for six months and the country's given me so much," he told ABC News. "It sounds cliche but I would feel not good leaving in this time right now and want to stay and help as much as possible."Weiner-Kaplow says most people are sleeping outdoors in fear of aftershocks. He said he has been sleeping outside the Israeli Embassy."Some people have started to go back into buildings, but most people are still sleeping in tent cities," he said. "They're not even public parks, they're just open areas in the city."
1477.txt:And at an emotional reunion on the runway at Sde Dov Airport, it seemed the only ones not sobbing were the newborns themselves. The earthquake survivors were met with wild cheering from relatives and friends, and excited shrieks from the new grandparents as they walked off the plane. Tearful, several of the couples thanked Israel effusively for the rescue efforts, and for “discovering its greatness.”
147.txt:In Nepals Lamjung, the epicentre of the quake, many buildings have been flattened. There are reports of cracks developing at the Kathmandu airport. Flights have been diverted to India.
1481.txt:The first Israelis landed after being rescued from Kathmandu on Monday afternoon, after a Magen David Adom (MDA) plane escorted the evacuees from the disaster area to Israel's Sde Dov airport.
1487.txt:Medical aid and rescue workers are being rushed to help victims in Nepal, the Lankan government announced, further adding that a C-130 Hercules aircraft of Sri Lanka Air Force (SLAF) carrying a team of military doctors, nurses and medical assistants arrived at the Kathmandu airport on Sunday to assist the relief efforts.
1487.txt:A Japanese disaster relief team left Narita airport on Sunday for Nepal to extend emergency support in the aftermath of the quake, The Japan Times reported.
148.txt:The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country’s only international airport which was briefly closed.
1499.txt:"The crowd can very efficiently go through thousands of square kilometers of imagery and identify things," Bullock said. "We can quickly update the map of Kathmandu showing how to bring supplies in and get people out to the airport or to a hospital. It really aids the efficiency of response ... After the event happens there's so much chaos and misinformation, it's hard for responders to figure out what areas need help first."
14.txt:Pushpa Das, a Kathmandu labourer, was injured when a wall collapsed on him as he ran from his house. “It was very scary. The earth was moving,” he told reporters as he waited for treatment outside one hospital. As he spoke, dozens more showed up with injuries, mostly from falling bricks. Kathmandu’s international airport was shut down.
1500.txt:"We are hoping that he is safe and sitting in the airport waiting for a flight," O'Brien's mother, Simpson posted on Facebook. "Keep your fingers crossed."
1504.txt:Chinese nationals gather outside the Kathmandu International Airport in Nepal on April 26, 2015. [Photo/IC]
150.txt:The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country’s only international airport, in a potential blow to relief efforts.
150.txt:The airport’s general manager, Birendra Prasad Shrestha, said it would remain closed “for safety reasons” at least until later in the afternoon.
151.txt:The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country's only international airport which was briefly closed.
1520.txt:Jakarta (ANTARA News) -- The Indonesian government will dispatch a donation of US$1 million and a rescue team to Nepal when the airport of the country, which was hit by a massive earthquake, is repaired and able to receive airplanes.
1520.txt:In addition, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs A. M. Fachir stated that the dispatch was hampered by a devastating landslide that damaged Nepals airport.
1520.txt:"The president has approved the sending of the donation and relief aid such as tents, blankets, and medicines. They are expected to be sent soon. However, the airport is damaged, not closed," Fachir noted.
1520.txt:"There is no access. The airport is not operational and the power supply is off," he pointed out.
1520.txt:Once the airport resumes operations, the government will send assistance to Nepal immediately.
1520.txt:"The airport is most likely being repaired now. We will hopefully be able to dispatch the assistance soon," he remarked.
1522.txt:Some of the 62 members of the Dutch Urban Search and Rescue team get ready to leave with their tracker dogs for Nepal to help search for victims after the earthquake at Eindhoven Airport, on April 26, 2015. (Photo: Evert-Jan Daniels, AFP/Getty Images)
152.txt:Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who was attending a summit in Jakarta, tried to rush back home but made it as far as Bangkok where his connecting flight to Kathmandu was canceled because the capital's international airport was shut down for commercial flights.
155.txt:11:46 GMT - 'City collapses' - The quake also ripped up highways in Kathmandu and also caused the closure of the country's only international airport.
156.txt:Speaking to a Gujarati news channel, one Gujarati tourist from Nepal said that they were told by Nepal administration to stay at safe place as aftershocks could continue. As Nepal airport has been shut down following earthquake, this Gujarati tourist said he was trying to reach India by road.
1574.txt:According to deputy spokesperson of the PM Office Col Sansern Kaewkamnerd, the Thai humanitarian teams will be flying to the country closest to Nepal before proceeding into affected areas, as Nepal’s international airport has been temporarily closed as a result of the tremor. The Thai Embassy in Nepal will facilitate the trip.
1583.txt:He said New Zealand officials were assisting those who wanted to leave, although the airport at Kathmandu was congested and some flights had been cancelled. But reports he had received were that Kiwis there were in good spirits and were being well looked after.
1583.txt:The airport was seriously congested and four flights from India had been turned back because they couldn't get down.
1587.txt:"Apparently the airport tarmac is cracked," she said.
1588.txt:It's no easy task, with unsanitary living conditions and only a few flights coming in and out of the airport.
1598.txt:The first Israeli airlift from Nepal after Saturday's 7.9 magnitude earthquake touched down at Ben-Gurion Airport late Sunday night. The plane also carried Israelis who had been in the country, including a number of people injured in the massive tremblor, and new-born surrogate babies and their parents.
1598.txt:On board the first plane to return to Israel was Omri Lanzet and his 10-day-old son Yonatan. The two headed directly from the airport to Soroka Medical Center in Be'er Sheva, where the baby underwent medical examinations.
159.txt:Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman said Israel would send a plane to evacuate citizens once the airport reopens for operations, and extended an offer to Nepalese officials to send aid.
1630.txt:10.14 am: Some 1000-1200 people are seated outside the airport and bus fares are too high: Indian rescued from Nepal earthquake
1630.txt:Some 1000-1200 people are seated outside the airport and bus fares are too high: Indian rescued from #NepalEarthquake pic.twitter.com/CXaOmdKSkk — ANI (@ANI_news) April 28, 2015
1630.txt:5.00 pm: 2 Antonov-32 aircraft bring back 101 passengers from Kathmandu to Palam airport, Delhi.
1632.txt:"A lot of people are still trapped there. A lot of Indians are waiting at the airport. Our military is extending the best possible help to them," he said.
164.txt:Juhu couple Sahil Mane and Tara Kaushal landed in Kathmandu last Monday on a two-week vacation. Sahil, a photographer, and Tara, a media consultant, hadn't had a holiday in two years, and selected Nepal for an adrenalin rush, complete with treks and bike rides. Yesterday, 11.56 am Nepal time, they literally saw the world crumble in front of them.As the earthquake of a 7.9 magnitude hit Nepal - its worst in 80 years - Tara and Sahil were getting a tattoo done at Hotel Yak and Yeti, in the capital Kathmandu. First the lights went off, then came the tremors, and the reality hit them when they saw a man jumping from a window of a building opposite. That's when they realised it was serious trouble."It was crazy, the ground was shaking and the buildings were crumbling to dust in front of our eyes," Sahil said. "We rushed out and saw a man jumping from a building. We saw a huge crack in the middle of our hotel building. It had cracked from the middle. Several people were buried under the debris within minutes."The couple, like hundreds of thousands of people trapped in Kathmandu, have taken refuge in a park. No-one dares to venture indoors as there are warnings of more tremors. "We were attending a tattoo convention with more than 70 artists from all over the world when the chandeliers hanging from the roof began swinging wildly. "The hotels are shut, and people have lined the streets, parks, everywhere," Sahil said.The Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu was indefinitely shut on Saturday. However, by evening yesterday, the airlines announced the resumption of flights to Nepal from Sunday. A few airlines, such as SpiceJet, have been asked to keep aircraft ready to lift supplies and bring back stranded passengers.Around 60 people from Maharashtra are believed to be stranded in Nepal. Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis has directed state officials to keep in touch with them and assured all possible help, and a rescue team of 22 members from the Mumbai Fire Brigade are expected to fly to the Himalayan country."I have instructed the state officials to be in touch with tourists from Maharashtra in Nepal and to give all the support and help to them," Fadnavis tweeted.The Juhu couple said they were looking forward to get out of Nepal as soon as possible, as even water was scarce. Thousands of tourists have been stranded without food and water, the couple said, adding the people had pitched tents at the parks."As soon as we realised there was an earthquake, we started looking for water. Everything has been shut. As we walked the narrows streets, which resemble the by-lanes of Bandra, walls around us were collapsing. There are people from all over the world who are stranded. We are lucky that we had come prepared for the music festival, and carried tents, sleeping bags and sweaters," Sahil said.
166.txt:The quake has wreaked havoc in Kathmandu, reducing notable heritage structures and other buildings in the capital to rubble. The city’s Durbar Square, a plaza where coronations of the former kingdom used to take place and which is now a UNESCO World Heritage Site, has been extensively damaged. So has the Dharahara Tower, a popular tourist attraction, which is similar to India’s Qutab Minar. Kathmandu's airport has been closed.
1681.txt:The disaster has prompted a huge international relief operation, although local reports suggest that much of the aid has yet to materialise on the ground due to strong aftershocks that closed Kathmandu’s main airport several times on Sunday.
1682.txt:He says aid flights from India were also turned away from the airport.
1686.txt:New Zealand's offer to send a 37-member search and rescue team was turned down because the country could not handle more capacity at this time, partially because of the seriously congested Kathmandu Airport which had to turn back four flights from India carrying supplies because they couldn't land.
1686.txt:The Government will consider sending the New Zealand Air Force if it is needed, but currently the airport is maxed out.
1689.txt:Foreign countries escalated efforts to get medical equipment, medicine, food, water, blankets, tents and search and rescue teams into Nepal, but chaotic scenes at the country’s main international airport slowed the flow of aid.
1692.txt:The Singapore Armed Forces’ C-130 planes, diverted to Kolkata and Patna in India due to air traffic congestion at Kathmandu airport, set off for Nepal on Tuesday (Apr 28).
1692.txt:Two of the C-130 planes were diverted to Kolkata, India on Monday from Kathmandu Airport. One of the Republic’s C-130 planes was diverted to Patna, India, which is nearer to Kathmandu. The planes are meant to help transport Singaporeans home as well.
1692.txt:In a Facebook post on Monday evening, Defence Minister Ng Eng Hen said conditions in Kathmandu can be challenging, as the airport is about 1,300m above sea level and weather conditions can change rapidly, according to ground commanders.
1694.txt:The state government on Monday helped at least 150 Indians head home after they reached the Indian border at Raxaul from Nepal and sent 10 buses to Pokhra to rescue the stranded citizens, reports PTI. "The state government has facilitated the journey of 150 people by trains to different locations who reached Raxaul by road from Nepal this morning," PTI quoted Vyasji, the principal secretary of the disaster management department, as saying. He said the state government had sent 10 buses to Pokhra in the neighbouring country to bring back stranded Indians. Five more would go there soon for the purpose. A report from Motihari, the headquarters of East Champaran district along the India-Nepal border, which suffered the maximum casualty in Bihar in the quake said district magistrate Bharat Kumar Dubey and superintendent of police Sunil Kumar were in Raxaul to monitor the facilities in relief camps there. District public relations officer Madhusudan Prasad said the police, magistrates and a team of doctors were working round the clock in the relief camps in Raxaul. In Sitamarhi, the district administration has arranged for water and generator sets in open space on the Dumra airport ground and Raghunath Jha school compound among others, for the people who have been taking shelter. Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital has shifted about 200 patients from its emergency, surgical and orthopaedic wards to other hospitals in the town as the building is old and not in a good condition, district magistrate Kumar Ravi said. Sashastra Seema Bal said it had despatched over three dozen vehicles, including ambulances and water tankers from its border camps, for relief operations in the earthquake-hit areas of Nepal. The border sentinels have also established 15 regional centres along the 1,751-km open border to help stranded Indians come back. The force, in a statement said, 7,959 people have crossed the border till Monday afternoon. Singapore plane A plane of Singapore air force carrying relief material and a team landed at Patna airport carrying 25 people. The plane could not land in Kathmandu owing to lack of parking space and low fuel. All 25 men were given "gratis visa" for 24 hours by the Patna senior superintendent of police as a gesture of goodwill and directions of the central and state governments. The team has been put up at a hotel and would leave for Kathmandu on Tuesday morning. "A total of 38 vehicles, including an ambulance and three water tankers, buses and other heavy and light vehicles, have been sent across the border up to Kathmandu by the force. The convoy is led by two officers of the force," an SSB spokesperson said. At the border camps, the spokesperson said, SSB medical teams treated 200 sick people.
1695.txt:"Many are living in fear, unable to return to their homes. Damage to roads and the airport means that getting relief and aid to these communities is also going to pose a great logistical challenge," he added.
1698.txt:A flight chartered by the Swedish Contingencies Agency (MSB) is set to take off from Örebro airport in central Sweden at around noon and is expected to land in Nepal at 1am on Tuesday.
1702.txt:"We are facing huge logistical difficulties. As well as roads being closed, aftershocks have prevented planes from landing at Kathmandu airport.
1707.txt:Link A child injured in Saturday's earthquake, is carried by a Nepalese soldier after being evacuated as they wait to disembark from an Indian Air Force helicopter at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal. Photo: AP
1707.txt:Link Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded man on a makeshift stretcher to a waiting Indian Air Force helicopter as they evacuate victims of Saturday's earthquake from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal. Photo: AP
1707.txt:Kathmandu's international airport closed temporarily after the initial quake and again after a 6.7 magnitude aftershock on Sunday. Television images showed tourists camped outside the airport awaiting flights to leave.
1709.txt:A crush at the main international airport, where relief material and rescue teams are flying in while thousands of residents are trying to leave, has slowed the flow of aid.
1710.txt:Indian aircraft carrying nearly 300 disaster-response personnel and a mobile hospital landed at Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport on Saturday. More aircraft landed carrying rescue equipment, medical supplies and food on Sunday. Those who were stranded were also evacuated by the special Indian Air Force aircraft.
1716.txt:Later in the day, five more youngsters touched down at Sde Dov Airport
1716.txt:Joyful: An Israeli man and his partner are pictured carrying their two children - include a newborn baby born to a surrogate mother in the Nepalese capital of Kathmandu - after touching down at an airport in Israel
1716.txt:Sunny: An Israeli couple disembark from an Israeli emergency medical plane (MDA) after being flown to Sde Dov airport in Tel Aviv
1716.txt:The parents who were pictured returning to Sde Dov Airport on Monday had traveled abroad before Saturday's disaster to collect their children. Four surrogate mothers are also being airlifted to safety.
1716.txt:In love: A gay Israeli couple embrace each other as they land safely at Sde Dov Airport with their children
1716.txt:Wrapped in a blanket: The parents who were pictured returning to Sde Dov Airport on Monday had traveled abroad before Saturday's disaster to collect their children. Four surrogate mothers are also being rescued
1716.txt:Presents: Welcome baskets await babies and their homosexual parents on the runway at Sde Dov Airport
1716.txt:Emotional: Some wounded people were also evacuated from Nepal to Israel on Monday. Above, Israeli Ohad Chitman is greeted by his mother, left, after being rescued from Nepal and landing at the airport in Tel Aviv
1716.txt:Waiting: Photographers and parents wait for babies and toddlers to arrive at the airport on Monday morning
1720.txt:Sniffer dog handler Birgit Ostendorf of Germany’s NGO organisation International Search and Rescue (ISAR- Germany) prepares her dog ‘Cooper’ to board their flight to Nepal from Frankfurt airport, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic
1720.txt:Indians fight during a queue for an aircraft back to their country outside Nepal’s Tribhuvan International Airport a day after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic
1720.txt:Tourists gather inside Nepal’s Tribhuvan International Airport a day after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic
1720.txt:Workers of the German Red Cross (DRK) prepare a load of humanitarian aid for victims of the earthquake in Nepal, in front of an aircraft at Schoenefeld airport outside Berlin April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic
1720.txt:Victims of Saturday’s earthquake rest inside an Indian Air Force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic
1720.txt:People wait outside the departure terminal at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015, following the April 25 earthquake. — Reuters pic
1720.txt:A crush at the main international airport, where relief material and rescue teams are flying in while thousands of residents are trying to leave, has slowed the flow of aid.
1721.txt:Foreign countries escalated efforts to get medical equipment, medicine, food, water, blankets, tents and search-and-rescue teams into Nepal, but chaotic scenes at the main international airport slowed the flow of aid.
1725.txt:German Red Cross workers prepare a load of humanitarian aid for victims of the earthquake in Nepal at Schoenefeld airport outside Berlin on April 27, 2015 ©Hannibal Hanschke (POOL/AFP)
1725.txt:- Medecins sans Frontieres (MSF - Doctors without Borders) has sent a dozen doctors and logistical experts and was set on Monday to send two planes each packed with 15 tons of aid from Belgium's Ostend airport.
1740.txt:WHILE some Australians have returned home on commercial flights, others are waiting for the Department of Foreign Affairs to release details of the military flights when arrangements at Kathmandu airport have been made.
1753.txt:“It’s very difficult to finally get into the country because of damage to the airports and so on,” Pullen said.
1756.txt:Lapierre, an emergency team leader for CARE Canada, arrived in Nepal Sunday just in time to experience a 6.8 magnitude aftershock at the airport. The devastation, destruction and suffering he has seen so far is overwhelming, he said.
1757.txt:http://www.thespec.com/news-story/5587688--chaos-at-nepal-airport-says-montreal-woman-stranded-by-earthquake/
1757.txt:‘Chaos’ at Nepal airport, says Montreal woman stranded by earthquake
175.txt:The Kathmandu airport was shut, triggering cancellation of flights from India to Kathmandu. An Indigo flight had to return to Delhi. Unconfirmed reports said avalanches on Mount Everest were triggered by the earthquake. Several mountaineers were unaccounted for, although the defence ministry in India said that a team of army climbers from India were safe, and have been asked to help in rescue operations.
175.txt:The Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu was indefinitely shut on Saturday, resulting in the cancellation of all the eight subsequent return flights from India bound for the capital city.
175.txt:The airport, according to aviation officials in Delhi, was opened in the evening, but only for non-commercial and relief operations. Some airlines like SpiceJet said they had been asked by Indian authorities to keep an aircraft ready to lift supplies from here and bring back stranded passengers.
175.txt:An air force spokesperson said that the Kathmandu airport runway was intact and aircraft could land there. All civilian flights have been cancelled.
175.txt:Kathmandu airport shut, flights from India cancelled
1760.txt:They were expected to arrive in Nepal by early Wednesday, but that depends on the condition of the airport in the capital city, which suffered some damage in the earthquake, Kenney said.
1760.txt:“They have made two attempts to land at the airport in Kathmandu and on both occasions they have been turned away, but we are determined we are going to get them there.”
1769.txt:Two IL-76 planes were dispatched to an airport in Chengdu, capital of southwest China's Sichuan Province, and one IL-76 plane was placed at an airport in Kunming, capital of nearby Yunnan Province, to transport PLA rescuers and logistics to Nepal.
1769.txt:The Air Force has thoroughly planned its choice of airports and air routes as well as mission details, Shen said.
1773.txt:The CPC Central Committee and the State Council attach great importance to the security of Chinese citizens in Nepal, and has made instructions to verify the casualties of Chinese citizens and damages suffered by Chinese institutions in Nepal. With the coordination of the Foreign Ministry and the Civil Aviation Administration of China, domestic airlines such as Air China, China Eastern Airlines, China Southern Airlines and Sichuan Airlines dispatched extra flights to pick up Chinese citizens stranded at Kathmandu airport in addition to the 7 Nepal-bound flights every day. The Chinese Embassy in Nepal also sent staff to the airport, coordinating flights and helping passengers board the plane. Up to 8 a.m. today, over a thousand stranded passengers have returned to China on 7 civil flights. Another 8 flights are expected to pick up Chinese citizens in Nepal today.
1775.txt:The Indian Air Force also evacuated 1,935 Indian nationals through 12 aircraft sorties. And the Indian Army’s Rapid Action Medical Team (RATM) plans to set up a first aid centre in Lagankhel, eight kilometres from Kathmandu airport.
1779.txt:A Chinese tourist waves to a reporter at the Kunming Changshui International Airport after returning from the quake-hit Nepal on April 26, 2015. [Photo: Chinanews.com]
1779.txt:Right after the Kathmandu airport in Nepal re-opened this morning, two flights departed for China, the first one carrying 230 passengers arrived in the southwestern city of Kunming. Most of the passengers arrived back home in stable condition.
177.txt:Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who was attending a summit in Jakarta, tried to rush back home but made it as far as Bangkok where his connecting flight to Kathmandu was canceled because the capital’s international airport was shut down for commercial flights.
1781.txt:Most areas were without power and water Sunday, but with Kathamandu airport reopened, first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. Workers were sending out tents and relief goods in trucks and helicopters, said disaster management official Rameshwar Dangal.
1782.txt:She added: “Minor injuries and no food since quake but healthy. Sinead said the quake struck while they were on their way to the airport to go to Borneo.
1782.txt:“They have been at the airport since and said aid and organisation there is non-existent.
1782.txt:Government officials were in disarray and aid workers were struggling to move supplies out of Kathmandu’s airport.
1784.txt:They arrived at their destination and were near the airport when the 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck at 11.41 local time on Saturday morning (5.56 a.m. Irish time).
1789.txt:'I want to stress that Indonesia is ready to help Nepal. It is still being discussed because the airport in the Nepalese capital Kathmandu is still paralyzed and is expected to resume operations in the next three to four days,' he said after a gala dinner with ASEAN Summit delegates in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, on Sunday night.
17.txt:At Kathmandu airport, flights arrived with emergency aid and helicopters brought in both foreign trekkers and local villagers from quake-struck areas. Helicopters chartered by trekking companies reached the Langtang area, about 40 miles north of Kathmandu, a popular area for trekking — a key contributor to the country's economy.
17.txt:At the Kathmandu airport, foreign planes from India, the U.S., China, Malaysia, Pakistan, Israel that brought aid and rescue personnel lined up on the crowded tarmac.
17.txt:Coming out of the airport with dry blood on his face and legs, Min Bahadur Raut said he got a ride on a helicopter from a neighbor who had chartered a flight for his mother. He has not been able to move his left arm.
1803.txt:http://us.india.com/news/india/nepal-earthquake-291-evacuees-land-at-palam-airport-in-delhi-365853/
1803.txt:Nepal earthquake: 291 evacuees land at Palam airport in Delhi
1803.txt:New Delhi, Apr 27 : The Ministry of Defence on Monday announced that an Indian Air Force (IAF) plane carrying 291 passengers rescued from earthquake struck Nepal landed at the Palam airport this morning. “#NepalEarthquake One C-17 of IAF landed at Palam from Kathmandu with 291 passengers on board at 0630 this morning,” official spokesperson of the Ministry of Defence (MoD), Sitanshu Kar, said on twitter.
1803.txt:He added that while feeble tremors continue to rock Nepal on the third day, one Rapid Action Medical Team (RATM) of IAF is ready with their medicines and equipment to set up first aid centre in Lagankhel, eight kilometres from the airport in Kathmandu. “#NepalEarthquake RATM is Rapid Action Medical Team. Army teams to bring in persons who need assistance to the centre…3 doctors and 25 paramedics to man the centre,” Kar said in a series of tweets.
1808.txt:Two days after the devastating earthquake in Nepal, Indian carriers continued to face air traffic congestion and parking constraints at Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport, leading to delayed departures and arrivals, airline officials said on Monday.
1808.txt:SpiceJet flight SG 041, scheduled to depart for Kathmandu from Delhi at 12:30 p.m., took off at 1:13 p.m. So was the case with Air India flight AI 213 -- it was scheduled to depart at 7:20 a.m. but took off at 1:02 p.m., officials at Indira Gandhi International Airport here said.
180.txt:Charities assembled disaster teams based on the assumption that sanitation, shelter and medical help are urgently required but the most convenient pathway into Nepal — one of the world’s poorest countries — was not available because the international airport in Kathmandu was shut down.
1813.txt:Indian nationals queue outside Kathmandu Airport yesterday. Rescue operations continued yesterday, following the earthquake on Saturday. Pics/PTI
1813.txt:One of the cracks ran through our hotel, splitting it in two. Everybody was panicking.” She and Nag decided to head to Hotel Yak and Yeti, where the tattoo convention was being held. They had heard that other attendees were going to gather there and then go to Kathmandu Airport.
1813.txt:The special forces were doing a commendable job of encouraging people and guiding them to the embassy,” Nag an Andheri resident recalled. They reached the airport hours later, and finally checked in around 7.30 pm. But the ordeal was far from over; this was when they saw the people at their most vulnerable, said Ajmani.
1814.txt:Right opposite the field where they were staying, a building had caved in, killing two. “We managed to stay in an ashram for some time, and later left for the airport. Luckily, senior citizens and women were given preference, though there were serpentine queues. We managed to land in New Delhi around 2.30 am on Sunday,” he said.
1814.txt:He said though he was not injured, a few of the other artists suffered injuries due to falling objects. “My luggage was in Thamel, which I needed to get. I went to Thamel, where I saw that people were leaving. I quickly grabbed my bags and ran out. I reached the airport by 7 pm. However, there were a large number of people waiting. The first flight took off with several people. I was part of the second flight that took off around 12.30 pm. I reached Delhi by 2 pm. It was a very scary experience,” he said.
1815.txt:Kathmandu’s small international airport is struggling to cope with the flow of relief supplies, aid workers and journalists arriving and residents trying to escape. Prone to congestion at the best of times, there are now major delays.
1815.txt:“There is complete chaos at the airport right now,” said Tak. “It’s unable to cope with the scale of the problem.”
1815.txt:Flying in from Delhi, normally a 1.5-hour flight, took Tak 11 hours from departure lounge to the arrival hall in Tribhuvan International Airport, including two hours circling Kathmandu waiting to land.
181.txt:The Kathmandu airport was shut, leading to cancellation of flights from India to Nepal. An Indigo flight had to return to Delhi.
181.txt:An air force spokesperson said that the Kathmandu airport runway was intact and aircraft could land there. All civilian flights have been cancelled.
1820.txt:New Delhi: The 7.9 magnitude earthquake struck Nepal’s Kathmandu valley a little before noon on Saturday. Within hours, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called Nepal’s President Ram Baran Yadav and Prime Minister Sushil Koirala to offer help and support. And four hours after the quake struck, four Indian Air Force planes—including a C-130J Super Hercules—were on their way to Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport with blankets, a mobile “field hospital” and search and rescue teams.
1826.txt:The Gujarat government is coordinating with the Centre and airport authorities to facilitate return of people from the state stuck in Nepal and has made arrangements for their stay in the national capital, a state government release said.
1826.txt:The Resident Commissioner’s office is coordinating with the Ministry of External Affairs and Indian Embassy in Kathmandu and also working with airport authorities for in-bound passengers, it added.
1826.txt:As Nepal airport has been shut down following earthquake, this Gujarati tourist said he was trying to reach India by road.
1835.txt:He said that an RATM (Rapid Action Medical Team) of Army was ready "with their medicines and equipment to set up first aid centre in Lagankhel, 08 km from airport in KTM."
1838.txt:Since Sunday evening, after a brief closure of Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport following fresh tremors, flight operations have resumed and the stranded Indians have begun returning.
1839.txt:Gojamgunde, who had landed in Nepal a day before the quake to attend an international conference on nutrition, returned to Delhi at 2 am today and caught an early morning flight to Pune, before returning to Latur today evening."A lot of people are still trapped there. A lot of Indians are waiting at the airport. Our military is extending the best possible help to them," he said."I had gone to Nepal to attend the international conference. Around 70 doctors had gone to Nepal on April 24," he said."When the quake struck, I heard a sound like that of a generator -- a whirring sound. Then everything began shaking. Even we were shaken. An old person in the hotel shouted: quake, quake, run run, after which we began running," he said."Some of us fell down and glasses started breaking. Pillars started shaking. Chandeliers began shaking," Gojamgunde said."After we came down, we saw the whole building shaking. I have experienced the Killari earthquake (in 1993, which claimed around 8,000 lives) but I have not seen an earthquake of such a magnitude," he said.
1841.txt:"In the midst of all the destruction, we saw the extremes of human nature on one end there were people who cared only for their own lives, and on the opposite, were those who helped others without thinking," said Kritika Ajmani, a Mumbai-based blogger who witnessed Saturday's earthquake in Kathmandu.Ajmani was accompanied by Shubham Nag, both 24-year-old bloggers from Mumbai who had gone to attend the International Nepal Tattoo Convention from April 24-26. However, the convention attended by 2,000 tattoo artists from around the world - was cut short when the first tremors shook Kathmandu around 11.41 am.At the time, the duo was at Hotel Ambassador, where they were staying. When they saw the lobby's chandeliers shaking, they ran out onto the streets to see the enormous damage wrought by the quake. Ajmani, a Santacruz resident, said, "There were huge craters on the ground. One of the cracks ran through our hotel, splitting it in two. Everybody was panicking." She and Nag decided to head to Hotel Yak and Yeti, where the tattoo convention was being held. They had heard that other attendees were going to gather there and then go to Kathmandu Airport.They had to walk for miles to get there, as even when they managed to find a taxi, the roads were too congested. "Our only view en route was total destruction. There was a public hospital that had collapsed and people were dragging patients out from the rubble.The special forces were doing a commendable job of encouraging people and guiding them to the embassy," Nag an Andheri resident recalled. They reached the airport hours later, and finally checked in around 7.30 pm. But the ordeal was far from over; this was when they saw the people at their most vulnerable, said Ajmani.Most showed great lack of discipline and patience, and did not bother to help women, children or the elderly. "The authorities were calling out names of women, children and elderly who were to board the first flight to Delhi at 9 pm. But the people simply paid no heed and were forcing their way in.They almost ran over a six-year-old child in the stampede," she added. But if some were selfish, there were also those who were selfless. The child was saved by another youngster who got hurt in the process. A few guards and youths took charge of the situation and made a human chain, restricting the path of the crowd so people could board the plane in an orderly manner.Ajmani and Nag eventually boarded the third flight which left Kathmandu around 11.30 pm, after experiencing the trauma for nearly 12 hours. Now safe in Delhi and looking forward to returning home to Santacruz this evening, Ajmani said, "In those 12 hours, we saw the best and the worst of humanity. We learnt the value of human life and to what extent one would go to save it."
1844.txt:JAIPUR/ALWAR: Large number of people from Rajasthan are stranded in earthquake affected areas in Nepal who had gone to work there as labourers and for business and tourism purposes.Chief minister Vasundhara Raje said the state government was making all efforts for safe evacuation of the people from Rajasthan, who got trapped in earthquake tragedy in Nepal, to their homes. A team of state officials had already left for Gorakhpur near Indo-Nepal border. Also, buses of Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation had been sent to evacuate people stuck in Nepal's Tarai region and hilly. Raje, who attended the meeting of the chief ministerial sub-group of NITI Aayog at New Delhi on Monday, said that the team dispatched from Rajasthan was instructed to make arrangements for ensuring safe evacuation of each resident of Rajasthan to her or his home.The state government has no concrete numbers of people stranded in Nepal but the government has initiated efforts to bring them back and also supplying necessary items for Nepal as relief.As many as 87 persons are stranded in Nepal from Dholpur area. They were working in shoe manufacturing units. The relatives of eight such people have claimed that they managed to talk over phone with them but rest of the people are worried as they have failed to contact with their relatives stuck up in Nepal. They do not know the whereabouts of their relatives. "From my area, 87 people had gone to Nepal. The relatives are trying to contact with them but all their efforts went in vain," a local leader Zafar Khan said.On the complaints of the relatives, Dholpur district collector Kumar Pal Gautam said, "We have informed National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) about the missing people from Dholpur."He said that the government will take all the stranded people to Gorakhpur. They would be taken to Rajasthan by Rajasthan State Road Transport buses from Gorakhpur to Rajasthan.Among the people, who reached collectorate, were mostly women. They claimed that they had a talk with the stranded people on Sunday and since then, they were unable to contact with them.Rajasthanis stranded in earthquake affected areas in Nepal contacting local leaders at their native place for help. "I received a call from Nepal from people of Churu last night (Sunday night). They were around 16 and were stranded at the airport. They wanted to come back to Churu," health minister and Churu MLA Rajendra Rathore said.He said that he had informed the higher officials about them so that they would get the relief and help, which they wanted."There is no such exact numbers on how many Rajasthanis are stuck up in Nepal. But, it is sure that the numbers are quite high. Large number of people from Shekhawati area settled in Nepal as they are doing job and business in Nepal. They want to return to their homes as most of them lost their houses," Rathore said.He said that it is estimated that around two lakh people from Rajasthan live in Nepal. But, it is no specific numbers of people stranded there in Nepal, who belonged to the state.Besides, Jaipur district administration sent a truck full of biscuits, snacks, grams, water bottles, towels and other items. "The relief truck has reached Palam airport. From Palam airport, it will be taken to Kathmandu airport," Jaipur's district supply officer Devendra Sharma said.He said that another truck will start from Jaipur tomorrow carrying food products.
1845.txt:ByHe himself survived the deadly calamity - he even saw buildings collapse in front of his eyes - but Pune based mountaineer Umesh Zirpe has decided to stay back to help victims of the Himalayan tragedy in Nepal.Zirpe has contacted the volunteers of his organisation Giripremi in Pune and asked them to be prepared to travel to Nepal for rescue operations if necessary. On Saturday, Umesh and 12 other mountaineers from Pune reached Kathmandu airport safely. According to Zirpe, there are still many people from Maharashtra stuck in various parts of Nepal."The situation here is extremely critical," Zirpe told Mirror from Kathmandu. "The roads are full of debris and those who survived the calamity are shattered. At this moment, they are in need of three things: moral support, blood, and money. After seeing the devastation here, I have decided to stay back to help others." Zirpe had led the Pune-based team that conquered Mt Everest in 2012.He had again taken a team of mountaineers to the Everest base camp. He and his team had returned to Kathmandu when the tragedy struck on Saturday. "We had landed in Kathmandu and I was travelling in a car when I suddenly felt that whole car was shaking," Zirpe said. "Initially I thought the cars of the car got punctured but later we realized that it was something bigger. As we realised that it was an earthquake, I and the car driver just left the vehicle and ran through the middle of the road."Zirpe said he saw buildings "collapsing and turning into debris in a flash. It was the ugliest scene. The people here lost their homes and they are shattered."After seeing his team of 12 mountaineers off at Kathmandu airport, Zirpe decided to stay back. "I have a long association with Nepal and I have friends in local organisations who help us during mountaineering expeditions. Now in their crisis, I thought we should help them," he said. "Apart from Nepali nationals, there are several Maharashtrian people including families and mountaineers who are stuck there and I thought of helping them out."Zirpe is helping victims in Kathmandu and nearby areas. On Sunday, he visited a local hospital and got the details of people especially from Maharashtra who are admitted."They are in need of help and now I am helping the local organisations to provide help to the needy people."
1856.txt:KATHMANDU, Nepal, April 27 (Reuters) - Nepalese officials scrambled on Monday to get aid from the main airport to people left homeless and hungry by a devastating earthquake two days earlier, while thousands tired of waiting fled the capital Kathmandu for the surrounding plains.
1856.txt:Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport was hobbled by many employees not showing up for work, people trying to get out, and a series of aftershocks which forced it to close several times since the quake.
1856.txt:On Monday, thousands streamed out of the city. Roads leading from Kathmandu were jammed with people, some carrying babies, trying to climb onto buses or hitch rides aboard cars and trucks to the plains. Long queues had formed at the airport.
185.txt:The Tribhuwan International airport in Kathmandu was shut down for hours following the quake with flights canceled or delayed.
1861.txt:Most areas are without power and water, but with Kathmandu airport reopening, rescue flights began arriving. Workers are sending out tents and relief goods in lorries and helicopters.
1862.txt:Toll touches 4,000: Tremors hamper relief work | Thousands flee capital | Chaos prevails at airport | In India, 72 dead so far
1862.txt:Nepalese officials scrambled to get aid from the main airport to people left homeless and hungry by Saturday’s devastating earthquake as the death toll climbed to 4,000 on Monday. Another 6,500 persons have been injured.A senior interior ministry official said the toll may reach 5,000 in the worse such disaster in Nepal since 1934, when 8,500 people were killed.Thousands of stranded people tired of waiting fled the capital Kathmandu for the surrounding plains.Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport was hobbled by many employees not showing up for work, people trying to get out, and a series of aftershocks which forced it to close several times since the quake. Home Minister Bam Dev Gautam was supervising aid delivery and arranging for passengers to leave the country.In Kathmandu, sick and wounded people were lying out in the open, unable to find beds in the devastated city's hospitals. Surgeons set up an operating theatre inside a tent in the grounds of Kathmandu Medical College. Government officials said they needed more supplies of food, medicines, specialised rescue services and body bags."The morgues are getting full," said Shankar Koirala, an official in the Prime Minister's Office who is dealing with the disposal of bodies. Families lit funeral pyres for the dead in towns and across the countryside. Many of Kathmandu's one million residents have slept in the open since Saturday, either because their homes were flattened or they were terrified that aftershocks would bring the structures crashing down.On Monday, thousands streamed out of the city. Roads leading from Kathmandu were jammed with people, some carrying babies, trying to climb onto buses or hitch rides aboard cars and trucks to the plains. Long queues had formed at the airport. Across the capital and beyond, exhausted families laid mattresses out on streets and erected tents to shelter from rain. People queued for water dispensed from trucks, while the few stores still open had next to nothing on their shelves. Humanitarian agencies said materials such as plastic sheets, dry food rations, clean water and blankets were being dispatched to affected people.The death toll in India has risen to 72, with over 300 people seriously wounded. Among those dead, 56 are in Bihar, 12 in UP, three in West Bengal and one in Rajasthan. — Agencies
1867.txt:NEW DELHI/ KATHMANDU : Toll from the massive quake in Nepal mounted to more than 3,218 while an inter-ministerial team of the Union Home Ministry, headed by B K Prasad, today left for quake-hit neighbouring country for coordination in relief and rescue operation. According to reports, people who stayed in open grounds and streets refused to go back to their homes, fearing fresh aftershocks. Nepal government sources said as many as 3,218 people have died and more than 6,000 were injured in the devastating quake, as per the recent data. It is feared that the toll could be much higher. Rescuers have launched fresh efforts to remove huge mounds of debris. However, rescue operations are hampered due to incessant rains, which the weatherman fear may continue for next 24 hours. Confusion at the Kathmandu airport ran unabated as every stranded tourist tried to get out of the tragedy-hit country. Passenger queues were seen there while many tried to catch buses to come back to India via road route. As many as 66 aftershocks have jolted Nepal ever since the massive quake hit the mountain country on Saturday. India’s rescue and relief teams, including the NDRF, are on full swing to provide necessary aids to victims. Locals have formed teams to mount vigil on areas so that unsocial elements could not enter into deserted houses. More than 20 bodies have been recovered from Mount Everest base camps where an avalanche was triggered by tremblor. In Bihar, people remained in open fields and parks as a precautionary measure. Panic among people was triggered last night by a rumour that there could be a possibility of a fresh quake as freakish astronomical phenomenon of ‘ulta chand’ (inverted moon) was observed in the sky. However, rumours were later dismissed by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. More than 60 people have so far died in Bihar, Uttar pradesh, West Bengal and Rajasthan.
1874.txt:NEW DELHI: The government is sending teams of senior executives and engineers from state-run energy companies to Nepal with a view to ensuring uninterrupted fuel supply and restoring power lines in the quake-struck country.In the first phase, a team of 4-5 senior executives from flagship refiner-marketer Indian Oil Corporation and more than a dozen engineers from transmission utility PowerGrid Corporation are scheduled to leave for Kathmandu on Monday morning."We have established contact with Nepal Oil Corporation and assured them of our full cooperation in maintaining fuel supplies. We are constantly monitoring the stock position of all products at our main dispatch centre in Raxaul and their depots in Amalekhganj. Both have comfortable stock positions," Indian Oil chairman B Ashok told TOI on Sunday.Nepal gets all its petro products from India under a government-to-government dispensation. Indian Oil supplies more than a million tonne of various fuels in a month. This consists of 26,000-27,000 tonnes of cooking gas and 0.8 million tonne of petrol, diesel and kerosene.Other company executives said Indian Oil has set up a control cell in Delhi to coordinate with the oil ministry and the Nepalese embassy soon after the quake hit Nepal on Saturday. Another cell has been set up in Mumbai, the company's marketing headquarters, to ensure dispatch of products on priority.Ashok said Indian Oil was also meeting the additional demand for jet fuel from the Indian Air Force, which is at the forefront of relief and rescue operations, at Hindon, Gorakhpur or any other military airport from where choppers and cargo aircraft are taking off on 'Operation Maitri' - as the Nepal operation has been named.A team of 14 engineers from PowerGrid are also scheduled to leave for Kathmandu to help restore power lines. The team was scheduled to fly out on Sunday but could not because of bad weather. "If required, we will send more people," a company executive told TOI.There is no disruption of supply of 100 mw from India, which is distributed among consumers in the plains of Nepal bordering India.
1875.txt:On Monday four ALH and 2 Cheetah copters were being inducted to Pokhra where a Heptr Base is being established. Eighteen medical teams of 10 personnel each have been inducted and deployed; one engineering task force has been deployed too. Apart from relief work, India is also focussing on evacuation of people through the surface route, as congestion at the airport is slowing down operations. Helicopters are
1879.txt:Three army field hospitals and engineering task force and medical units of civilian doctors have been sent to Nepal. Jaishankar said Sunday’s aftershocks have hampered the rescue and relief operations as Kathmandu airport was shut for long hours.
1879.txt:However, the airport was later reopened. He said the government has deployed 35 buses to evacuate stranded Indians in Nepal via two routes — Sunauli and Raxaul — along the Indo-Nepal border. “We are
1880.txt:NEW DELHI: India on Monday gave a massive thrust to its rescue and relief mission in quake-devastated Nepal - 'Operation Maitri' - pressing into service 12 heavy-duty military aircraft and 18 helicopters besides opening up four land routes to connect to Kathmandu and Pokhara valley to reach out to the affected with men and material. The joint Army-Air Force operation managed to evacuate 5,400 people till Monday, including 30 foreigners, who were stuck in Nepal. Foreign secretary S Jaishankar said India had received requests from several countries to rescue their stranded nationals.After the third day of relief and rescue operations, the foreign secretary said congestion in Kathmandu airport had forced four of India's military aircraft to return due to non-availability of landing space. Of the 18 helicopters, six have been kept on standby, he said.The government has deployed 10 teams of the National Disaster Response Force, each comprising 45 well-equipped personnel trained in disaster rescue operations. Three more NDRF teams were rushed on Monday, he said.On Monday, Indian soldiers were able to reach parts of the worst-affected Pokhra region, the epicentre of the temblor, by helicopters and dropped relief material. The Indian Army set up a camp at the epicentre."After Kathmandu, the NDRF teams will move out to surrounding areas," home secretary L C Goyal said.The focus on Monday was to restore the power in Kathmandu and other parts of the Himalayan state with the help of a team of Power Grid officials. New Delhi has also sent another team from Indian Oil to ensure continuous fuel supply.The foreign secretary said four land routes were opened to Kathmandu, removing the blockage on Sunauli-Bhairawah link. Other routes opened for road traffic include the Janakpur and Raxaul-Birganj routes in Bihar and Mahendra Nagar in Uttarakhand. At least 100 buses with relief material, including food packets, water, medicines and equipment were dispatched.The government has sent one RO plant for restoring drinking water supply and oxygen regenerators. Army personnel on Monday reached interiors of the Himalayan country. While the main Taskforce Hq operated from Kathmandu, a sub-hq was set up at Barpak Village in Gorkha district, the epicentre of the quake.An engineering task force, consisting of 40 soldiers, five earth-movers and generators, is already operational 5-km outside Kathmandu. Ten more such taskforces are planned as Kathmandu-Pokhara road has been restored.Six choppers were inducted in Pokhara for rescue and relief operations with the rest operating in Kathmandu and surrounding areas. The Army is setting up three field hospitals, consisting of 18 medical teams with surgeons, with one already set up at Radalgrah, near Lalitpur. In addition the Air Force has airlifted a rapid aero-medical team.The Army has deployed six ambulances while the Shashtra Seema Bal is sending 10 more to the quake- affected areas. The home ministry has asked SSB to assist in rescue efforts through India's land routes to Nepal. Supply of relief material will be carried out through these land routes.The government also launched a national disaster helpline -011-1078—for people to access information.
1881.txt:Calling it a "very big tragedy", Singh said India stands by Nepal and those affected in India in this hour of crisis. He also thanked the governments of Bihar, UP and Uttarakhand for setting up relief camps at the border with Nepal and plying buses to evacuate people. Chaos reigns at Nepal's only international airport
1886.txt:http://www.ibtimes.com/nepal-earthquake-survivors-relief-workers-jam-airports-ticket-prices-fluctuate-1897349
1886.txt:Nepal Earthquake Survivors, Relief Workers Jam Airports As Ticket Prices Fluctuate
1886.txt:Saturday's 7.8-magnitude earthquake rocked nearly all of Nepal -- including its airports. Thousands of people were trying to escape the crisis-stricken nation and the aftershocks Sunday at the same time relief workers and medical supplies were flooding in. Some airlines raised and lowered ticket prices to deal with demand while others forced passengers to wait for a chance to fly out.
1886.txt:“It was complete chaos at the airport,” Emilie-Anne Leroux told the Star, adding there was “a three-kilometer queue of Indians who are standing literally nose to the back of the head” hoping to score seats. Leroux, a Canadian, said she couldn’t get a flight out of Nepal for at least a week.
1886.txt:Tribhuvan International Airport was closed on and off Saturday and Sunday due to the earthquake, aftershocks and heavy rainfall. Countries like the United States, Israel, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Canada were flying in relief workers and supplies while visitors and locals scrambled to exit.
1886.txt:‘Chaos’ at Nepal airport, says Montreal woman stranded by massive earthquake http://t.co/8Zt47TCmTd pic.twitter.com/NxFqWsmN7e â€” Global Calgary (@GlobalCalgary) April 26, 2015
1886.txt:8:20am - MT @RPOBB: About 200 members of a Japanese rescue team checking in at Suvarnabhumi airport. Next stop Nepal pic.twitter.com/P8jgsPUCiO â€” Richard Barrow (@RichardBarrow) April 27, 2015
1886.txt:Hundreds of Chinese tourists are currently stuck at Nepal's airport. Water is scarce, cell phones don't work. pic.twitter.com/zCDQZYiqO3 â€” edde (@Edourdoo) April 25, 2015
1886.txt:Israel's Ben Gurion Airport is packed with hundreds of Israeli soldiers on their way to help #Nepal #NepalQuakeRelief pic.twitter.com/TyKpNSM1j0 â€” On Elpeleg (@onelpeleg) April 26, 2015
1886.txt:SERVE ON rescue team now at airport waiting for departure to Nepal #USAR #NepalEarthquake #NepalQuake pic.twitter.com/qmokizHFJg — SERVE ON (@SERVE_ON) April 26, 2015
1895.txt:K.P. Sitoula, who runs a restaurant in Seoul, says his family members in Nepal made it through in good condition because they live in a part of Kathmandu near the airport that has escaped much of the devastation the rest of the capital has seen.
1903.txt:The exodus came as international rescue teams with sniffer dogs raced to find survivors buried in rubble, and teams equipped with heavy cutting gear and relief supplies landed at the nation’s only international airport.
1905.txt:A chartered plane with 34 rescuers from Oslo's fire and rescue service and the Oslo University, five dogs and 15 tons of rescue and relief equipment took off from the Gardermoen airport in Oslo Monday morning, the report said.
1907.txt:Plan is receiving reports of widespread devastation in remote districts located just west of the earthquake’s epicentre, with a further 6.7-magnitude aftershock felt in the region, closing Kathmandu airport and hampering the delivery of aid.
1909.txt:They are currently being taken to Kathmandu airport to fly home to Bangladesh, he adds. "Thank you CNN so much for providing an avenue to get this news out," he says. "We reached a lot of response ... that brought forth the information that they were alive and not hurt from the earthquake. This information was extremely important to us psychologically."
1911.txt:Roads to and from Kathmandu are inaccessible and airports have been closed off.
1911.txt:“The update we have is the main highway is closed due to damage and debris and the airport is only open to aid flights coming in.
1915.txt:Frankfurt Airport will build a new $3.2-billion terminal to keep up with global demand for air travel. It could open by 2022. ( Skift )
1917.txt:The arrival of relief flights has caused major backups at Katmandu's small airport.
1917.txt:Four Indian air force aircraft carrying aid supplies and rescue personnel were forced to return to New Delhi on Monday because of airport congestion, Indian defense ministry spokesman Sitanshu Kar said. India planned to resend the planes later Monday night when the situation was expected to have eased.
1919.txt:Alison Hudson flew out of Lukla Airport just hours before the deadly earthquake struck. The airport is the place where most people start their climb to the Mount Everest Base Camp.
192.txt:The Kathmandu airport was shut, leading to cancellation of flights from India to Nepal. An Indigo flight had to return to Delhi.
192.txt:An air force spokesperson said that the Kathmandu airport runway was intact and aircraft could land there. All civilian flights have been cancelled.
1937.txt:There are several ways to donate through the United Nations. The World Food Programme is working out of a Relief Hub at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu to store, transport and deliver food to those in need. There is also the United Nations Central Emergency Response Fund, which collects donations to be channeled through various UN relief efforts.
1942.txt:The team departed from Stansted Airport at 9.15am yesterday (Sunday, April 26).
1945.txt:http://www.mumbaimirror.com/mumbai/others/Kathmandu-airport-congestion-forces-IAF-planes-to-return/articleshow/47075945.cms
1945.txt:Kathmandu airport congestion forces IAF planes to return
1945.txt:Four Indian Air Force aircraft carrying relief material had to return from Kathmandu as the airport was already choca-bloc with other aircraft bearing similar supplies. "Kathmandu Airport is under tremendous pressure. It is difficult to get the landing slots," Foreign Secretary S Jaishankar said.Army officials are now working to streamline the unloading of relief material. "We will be flying another four aircraft tonight, hopefully the airport would have cleared by then," defence secretary RP Mathur said.The planes were carrying, food, water, RO Machines, oxygen tanks among other things. A team of Indian power grid officials have also been flown in to restore power in Kathmandu.A total of 5,400 Indian nationals have been evacuated from the quakehit Nepal, the first lot of 2100 persons were rescued by Indian Airforce. The Indian Air Force has also rescued 30 foreign nationals. According to Jaishankar, these were mostly the injured and elderly.The MEA does not have a clear idea as to how many Indians are still trapped in Nepal, considering Indians can visit the country without a passport. "We cannot say with certainty as to how many Indian nationals are there. The situation is dynamic. Every day, more people are coming forward seeking help at our embassy," he added."We have more or less rescued everyone in affected areas of the country. The states have not sought anymore help as of now," home secretary LC Goyal said.Jaishankar said the reopening of roads in Nepal has facilitated the movement of nearly 150 buses carrying relief material and medical teams from Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar."In last 48 hours, our relief work has been primarily via the air route but now things are improving. We have deployed the army's engineering wing to clear the landslides," Jaishankar added.The Indian Army is also seeking help from ex-servicemen from the Gorkha Rifles. "Since they are residents of Nepal, they are more familiar with the landscape and will be able to help us better with navigating the terrain," Mathur said.Additional bogies have been attached to the trains going to Gorakhpur and Birganj, close to Nepal border, so that people coming from Nepal can easily get a berth.
1954.txt:Many buildings have collapsed in the capital and it continues to experience aftershocks. The airport has also suffered damage.
1955.txt:The exodus came as international rescue teams with sniffer dogs raced to find survivors buried in rubble, and teams equipped with heavy cutting gear and relief supplies landed at the nation's only international airport.
1957.txt:The arrival of relief flights has caused major backups at Katmandu's small airport.
1957.txt:Four Indian air force aircraft carrying aid supplies and rescue personnel were forced to return to New Delhi on Monday because of airport congestion, Indian defense ministry spokesman Sitanshu Kar said. India planned to resend the planes later Monday night when the situation was expected to have eased.
1964.txt:A plane carrying 15 injured people later arrived in Katmandu from Lukla, home of the nearest airport to Qomolangma. Officials declined to provide details of their conditions, but most appeared to have broken bones or other treatable injuries. Of those evacuated, 12 were Sherpas from Nepal. There was also one person each from China, South Korea and Japan.
1969.txt:Jakarta (Antara News) - As a country prone to natural disasters such as earthquakes, Indonesia has also felt the suffering of Nepalese whose country was devastated by a 7.9-magnitude earthquake on April 25, 2015.Soon after the news about the deadly quake reached Jakarta, the government expressed its deepest condolences over the heavy loss of lives, and offered US$ 1 million in humanitarian aid.Indonesia will also send a rescue team and extends moral support to the people of Nepal in facing the disaster, the government said in a press statement on April 26, 2015.The Indonesian Foreign Ministry has coordinated with relevant agencies in its plan to send humanitarian aid that includes medical personnel, SAR assistance, instant food, blankets, emergency tents and medicines, to Nepal, the statement said.The ministry also has coordinated with the Indonesian Embassy in Dhaka, Indonesian honorary consul in Kathmandu and several sides to monitor Indonesian citizens in Nepal."I have just told the ministers. Indonesia is ready to provide assistance," President Joko Widodo (Jokowi) told the press.The president estimated that relief aid from Indonesia for the victims in Nepal to arrive in three to four days, because the airport in Kathmandu was damaged by the earthquake.Jokowi affirmed that Indonesia that has experience in post-disaster work, such as after tsunamis and earthquakes, will not only provide aid but also send search and rescue and medical teams to the quake-hit areas in Nepal.The Indonesian government will dispatch the donation and a rescue team to Nepal when the airport of the country, which was hit by a massive earthquake, is repaired and able to receive airplanes.In addition, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs A. M. Fachir stated that the dispatch was hampered by a devastating landslide that damaged Nepals airport."The president has approved the sending of the donation and relief aid such as tents, blankets, and medicines. They are expected to be sent soon. However, the airport is damaged, not closed," Fachir noted."There is no access. The airport is not operational and the power supply is off," he pointed out.Once the airport resumes operations, the government will send assistance to Nepal immediately."The airport is most likely being repaired now. We will hopefully be able to dispatch the assistance soon," he remarked.An NGO, Quick Response Action (ACT), will soon send a team from Global Humanity Response (GHR) to help with earthquake relief efforts in Nepal."The team will conduct an initial assignment and recovery action in accordance with the priority needs of the Nepali people after the earthquake," the GHR director Imam Akbari said here on Monday, adding the team is scheduled to leave for Nepal on Monday night.As many as 3,218 people were killed and some 6,500 others injured in the powerful earthquake that struck Nepal at midday on Saturday, authorities were quoted as saying on Monday morning by Xinhua.The 7.9-magnitude quake jolted the central, western, mid-western and far-western parts of Nepal, which was followed by at least 15 strong aftershocks, with the last one of 6.7 magnitude occurring on April 26 afternoon.The quake has also caused property damages worth billions of US dollars in the country.Indonesian Foreign Affairs Minister Retno Marsudi said some 49 Indonesian citizens were in Nepal when the powerful earthquake jolted the country."Of the 49 Indonesian citizens in Nepal, 18 were settled there, while 31 others were on a visit," Retno Marsudi stating, adding that 19 of them had already been contacted, but the rest were unreachable as the communication links were disrupted due to the earthquake.But, another report said that the number of Indonesian nationals in Nepal was 34 when the quake struck the country.Of the total, 17 people were contacted, while the whereabouts of 17 others were still unknown, the foreign ministry remarked.The missing Indonesians include three climbers, who were last known to scale Yala Peak in the Langtang area, Nepal."The latest update is that we still cannot contact our friends who are in Nepal, not to mention the bad reception of cellular phones there," according to spokesman of the climbers hiking club crisis center, Grahito Handaru, in Bandung, West Java, on April 27, 2015.The three climbers identified as Jeroen Hehuwat, Kadek Andana, and Alma Parahita are the members of Bandungs Taruna Hiking Club."As per the last established contact, they had not yet reached the climbing area, but then the earthquake struck there," Grahito noted.According to Grahito, the three climbers, who left Indonesia for Nepal on May 19, 2015, were in Langtang Village to make the required preparations for the climb and had planned to head to Khyangin Gompa.The hiking clubs crisis center has been coordinating with the Indonesian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the International Red Cross to locate the climbers, he said.According to Reuters, the powerful earthquake struck Nepal and sent tremors through northern India, toppling a 19th-century tower in the capital Kathmandu and touching off a deadly avalanche on Mount Everest.There were reports of devastation in outlying, isolated mountainous areas after the midday quake of magnitude 7.9, Nepals worst in 81 years, centred 50 miles (80 km) east of the second city, Pokhara.The media reported a collapse in communications hampered relief efforts, raising fears of a humanitarian disaster across the impoverished Himalayan nation of 28 million people.A tourism official said at least 10 people were killed when an avalanche unleashed by the earthquake swept through the Everest base camp, where more than 1,000 climbers had gathered at the start of the annual climbing season.Google executive Dan Fredinburg was among the dead on Mount Everest.A second tourism official, Mohan Krishna Sapkota, said it was "hard to even assess what the death toll and the extent of damage" around Everest could be."The trekkers are scattered all around the base camp and some had even trekked further up. It is almost impossible to get in touch with anyone," he was quoted as saying by Reuters. (*)F001/A/F001/A/H-YH) 27-04-2015 22:52:24
1970.txt:A mini-cyclone that hit northwest Pakistan late Sunday has left at least 44 people dead and injured more than 200 according to Pakistani officials (ET, Dawn, Guardian, RFE/RL). Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Provincial Information Minister Mushtaq Ghani stated: “At least 44 people have been killed and 202 wounded. The storm followed by heavy rain and hailstorm has severely damaged wheat crops and orchards.” The storm resulted in electricity suspensions in Peshawar and parts of Nowshera and Charsadda as well as the suspension of all flights from Peshawar’s airport. Lutfur Rehman, a local disaster management official, said winds reached up to 75 miles per hour.
1974.txt:Mitchell’s brother, Marcus, 43, who works at Heathrow Airport, said his brother left Aberdeen at the age eight.
1984.txt:The aftershock sparked screams and sent terrified people into the streets of Kathmandu. At the city's airport, the floor rolled with the tremor. Passengers rushed past the immigration desks and customs officials abandoned their seats, rushing to take cover along a row of pillars as the building shook and lights briefly went out.
1988.txt:Nepal is Asia’s poorest country. Fewer than half of its roads and only a quarter of its airport runways are paved, and it lacks transportation and energy infrastructure.
1989.txt:The director of Caritas Nepal, Fr Pius Perumana, told the US-based Catholic News Service on Tuesday that the logistical problems were “enormous” and that several Catholic aid groups had been delayed collecting supplies at Kathmandu airport because of congestion.
1989.txt:At one point the airport was closed due to heavy rain; meanwhile dozens of international flights carrying much-needed supplies are being held in the air because the airport can only accommodate 12 international flights at a time.
1990.txt:SINGAPORE - Plans to evacuate Singaporeans out of quake-hit Nepal have been delayed as three Republic of Singapore Air Force C-130 planes did not land at Kathmandu Airport on Monday.
1990.txt:Defence Minister Ng Eng Hen said in a Facebook post on Monday that the diversions were due to congestion at Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport.
1990.txt:"Ground commanders tell me that conditions at Kathmandu can be challenging. The airport is about 1,300m above sea level and weather conditions can change rapidly.
1993.txt:However, congestion at Kathamandu's airport has caused delays, with Indian TV reporting that an Indian relief flight was forced to turn back.
1996.txt:George and Emily are currently stuck in a tent by the airport in Lukla, but George’s dad Duncan Vessey says he and wife Gill (both 57) were relieved to discover the pair were safe having heard the earthquake had struck.
1996.txt:They hope to be able to fly out from Lukla tomorrow (Thursday, April 30) or Friday, weather permitting, to get to Kathmandu and report to British Embassy officials who are on duty at the airport.
2004.txt:As international organizations warned of urgent aid needs, some of the aircraft carrying much-needed supplies from overseas were forced to turn back because of congestion on the tarmac at Kathmandu's airport.
2010.txt:Meanwhile, Foreign Minister K. Shanmugam said that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) sent a crisis response team to Kathmandu yesterday morning to help Singaporeans looking to leave Nepal. The team is based at Kathmandu International Airport.
2014.txt:Two aircraft headed to Katmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport from India carrying some rescue personnel and aid workers had to head back to New Delhi because it was not safe to land, forcing a delay in relief efforts. Flights eventually resumed, only to be further delayed again by weather.
2018.txt:As international organizations warned of urgent aid needs, some of the aircraft carrying much-needed supplies from overseas were forced to turn back because of congestion on the tarmac at Kathmandu’s airport.
201.txt:The Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu was indefinitely shut on Saturday, resulting in the cancellation of all the eight subsequent return flights from India bound for the capital city.
201.txt:The airport, according to aviation officials in Delhi, was opened in the evening, but only for non-commercial and relief operations. Some airlines like SpiceJet said they had been asked by Indian authorities to keep an aircraft ready to lift supplies from here and bring back stranded passengers.
201.txt:An air force spokesperson said that the Kathmandu airport runway was intact and aircraft could land there. All civilian flights have been cancelled.
2021.txt:They were expected to arrive in Nepal by early Wednesday, but that depends on the condition of the airport in the capital city, which suffered some damage in the earthquake, Kenney said.
2021.txt:"They have made two attempts to land at the airport in Kathmandu and on both occasions they have been turned away, but we are determined we are going to get them there."
2026.txt:However, congestion at Kathamandu's airport has caused delays, with Indian TV reporting that an Indian relief flight was forced to turn back.
2049.txt:As the number of humanitarian responders increase, it is important for clear processes to expedite customs clearance for emergency cargo at the airport. This will ensure those affected get the assistance they need. In the immediate aftermath of the earthquake, a focal point and clear guidance for the coordination of humanitarian efforts was missing and affected the speed and reach of humanitarian aid.
2055.txt:18/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese girl injured in the earthquake holds the hand of her mother inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
2055.txt:19/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese victims of the earthquake lie inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
2055.txt:24/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded man on a makeshift stretcher to a waiting Indian air force helicopter as they evacuate victims of the earthquake from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
2055.txt:25/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person carries a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance after the child and mother were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu
2055.txt:26/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person walks carrying a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance as the mother follows after they were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu
2062.txt:Twenty-two climbers had been ferried to a lower altitude, from where the first 18 would be evacuated to Kathmandu by a heavy helicopter that took off from the capital's airport in the morning after heavy clouds cleared.
2070.txt:Mr Costello said the airport wasn't damaged, so relief flights could land.
2076.txt:Nepal races to save victims A Nepalese villager injured in an earthquake holds her son as they sit inside an Indian Army helicopter after being evacuated from Lapu in Gorkha. Picture: AFP Nepalese villagers shelter from rain during relief operations following an earthquake at Lapu in Gorkha. Picture: AFP A Nepalese resident injured in the earthquake is carried by a relative towards an Indian Army helicopter. Picture: AFP Damaged houses are seen from an Indian Army helicopter following an earthquake in the Nepalese area of Gorkha . Picture: AFP A Nepalese policeman walks among earthquake debris in the Nepalese capital Kathmandu. Picture: AFP +22 images The uncle of a 12-year-old girl pulled from a collapsed home grieves as he wraps her body in Kathmandu, Nepal. Picture: AP Rescue teams carry a body dug out of the collapsed Sitapyla church in Kathmandu. Picture: AP Nepalese and Indian rescue teams remove a body from the collapsed Sitapyla church in Kathmandu. Picture: AP Volunteers and emergency workers search for bodies buried under the debris of one of the temples at Basantapur Durbar Square n Kathmandu. Picture: Getty Images Rescue personnel observe damaged buildings in Bhaktapur, on the outskirts of Kathmandu. Picture: AFP A woman carries a child next to collapsed houses in Bhaktapur, on the outskirts of Kathmandu. Picture: AFP A Nepalese man consoles his friend during the cremation of his relative killed in the recent earthquake, at the Pashupatinath temple, on the banks of Bagmati river, in Kathmandu. Picture: AP Suresh, 16, right, watches as a priest prepares the funeral pyre for his younger brother Umesh, 13, killed in Saturday’s earthquake. Picture: AP The official death toll soared past 4000, even without a full accounting from vulnerable mountain villages that rescue workers were still struggling to reach two days after the disaster. Picture: AP Israeli women cuddle a newborn baby of a homosexual couple who was born in Nepal to a surrogate mother after they were repatriated to Israel from quake-hit Nepal, at Tel Aviv airport. Picture: AFP A man cries during the funeral of his sister, a victim of Saturday’s earthquake, at the Pashupatinath temple, on the banks of Bagmati river, in Kathmandu, Nepal. Picture: AP Damaged roads are seen after an earthquake on the outskirts of Kathmandu. International aid groups and governments intensified efforts to get rescuers and supplies into earthquake-hit Nepal, but severed communications and landslides in the Himalayan nation posed formidable challenges to the relief effort. Picture: AFP People burn the bodies of earthquake victims at a mass cremation in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP Nepalese residents mourn the death of a relative following an earthquake, at a mass cremation in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP Nepalese rescue personnel rescue a trapped earthquake survivor as his friend lies dead next to him. Picture: AFP A Nepalese resident mourns the death of a relative following an earthquake in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP Nepalese resident Suresh Parihar plays with his 8-month-old daughter Sandhaya as he is treated for injuries sustained in an earthquake at a city hospital in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP An injured person is carried by rescue members to be airlifted by rescue helicopter at Everest Base Camp. Picture: AFP Rescuers carry a sherpa injured by an avalanche that flattened parts of Everest Base Camp. Picture: AFP A cloud of snow and debris triggered by an earthquake flies towards Everest Base Camp, moments ahead of flattening part of the camp in the Himalayas. Picture: AFP People clear rubble in Kathmandu’s Durbar Square, a UNESCO World Heritage Site that was severely damaged by the earthquake. Picture: AFP A Nepalese man and woman hold each other in Kathmandu’s Durbar Square. Picture: AFP Rescuers tend to a sherpa injured by an avalanche that flattened parts of Everest Base Camp. Picture: AFP
2083.txt:"The plan was to try and get them down to Lukla as quickly as we could, to the airport to get them back to Kathmandu, but the weather's been pretty poor so there's been no flights out of Lukla at this stage."
2083.txt:Meanwhile, an Australian survivor of the Nepalese earthquake who has just arrived at Sydney Airport says she nearly didn't make it home.
2083.txt:"It was the longest half hour of my life, they had to check the runway to make sure it was safe to fly and luckily my plane took off but many people didn't get on that plane and I don't know if the airport reopened," she said.
2089.txt:Neighbouring countries sent in military transport planes laden with medical supplies, food and water. But little sign of organised relief efforts was visible as aid agencies struggled to fly helicopters in cloudy weather, aftershocks forced the intermittent closure of Kathmandu airport and roads were blocked by landslides.
2092.txt:AS Aussie actor Hugh Sheridan heads to Nepal to find his Adelaide-based brother, another SA man has told of the panic which swept through the main airport as the deadly earthquake struck.
2092.txt:Chaos and panic in Kathmandu airport
2092.txt:Meanwhile, an man has told of the panic that swept through Nepal’s main airport as the deadly earthquake struck at the weekend.
2092.txt:Mr Parente, 27, said panic set in as terrified commuters tried to escape the airport building.
2099.txt:Teams equipped with heavy cutting gear and relief supplies were landing round the clock at the nation’s only international airport, on the outskirts of Kathmandu which has been devastated by Saturday’s 7.8 magnitude quake.
2100.txt:In Sitamarhi, the district administration has arranged water and generator sets in open space in Dumra airport ground, Raghunath Jha school compound among others for the people who have been taking shelter there.
2101.txt:Tasmanian woman Maree Matic, from Burnie, was in Kathmandu airport when the earthquake hit.
2101.txt:He said his wife was almost trampled when people ran out of the airport building and onto the tarmac.
2104.txt:The exodus came as international rescue teams with sniffer dogs raced to find survivors buried in rubble, and teams equipped with heavy cutting gear and relief supplies landed at the nation’s only international airport.
2104.txt:The exodus came as international rescue teams with sniffer dogs raced to find survivors buried in rubble, and teams equipped with heavy cutting gear and relief supplies landed at the nation’s only international airport.
2105.txt:The exodus came as international rescue teams with sniffer dogs raced to find survivors buried in rubble, and teams equipped with heavy cutting gear and relief supplies landed at the nation’s only international airport.
2106.txt:The team departed from Stansted Airport on Sunday (April 26). The deployment period could last up to 14 days.
210.txt:(First Air Force plane carrying 3.5 tonnes of relief materail and rescue personnel at Kathmandu airport)
2110.txt:The team departed from Stansted Airport on Sunday (April 26). The deployment period could last up to 14 days.
2113.txt:Some aid flights were unable to land as Kathmandu's main airport was closed several times on Sunday as a result of aftershocks. Some aid vehicles traveled over land from Indian to Pokhara, a Nepalese city 80 km from the epicenter.
2116.txt:The team departed from Stansted Airport on Sunday (April 26). The deployment period could last up to 14 days.
2119.txt:The injured were admitted to the government hospital in Siliguri. Banerjee, who arrived at Bagdogra airport this afternoon to assess first hand the damage caused by the powerful temblor in north Bengal, told reporters that the damage and devastation were “very sad and unfortunate”. Expressing her solidarity with the quake-hit in Nepal, Banerjee said, “The state government has so far received 31 requests from Bengalis stuck in the Himalayan kingdom and we are initiating efforts to bring them back.”
2127.txt:“We are facing huge logistical difficulties. As well as roads being closed, aftershocks have prevented planes from landing at Kathmandu airport."
2131.txt:However, there has been little sign of international assistance on the ground so far, with some aid flights prevented from landing by aftershocks that closed Kathmandu's airport several times yesterday.
2135.txt:International aid has begun arriving in Nepal, but disbursement has been slow, partly because aftershocks have sporadically closed the airport.
2137.txt:The Katmandu international airport has been operating normally since Sunday, with both passenger planes and relief planes arriving from various foreign countries worldwide.
2137.txt:However, some people have been waiting at the airport for being evacuated for two days, mostly Indian nationals. India said it had evacuated 1,935 stranded Indians from Nepal.
2138.txt:Foreign countries escalated efforts to get medical equipment, medicine, food, water, blankets, tents and search and rescue teams into Nepal, but chaotic scenes at the country's main international airport slowed the flow of aid.
213.txt:Local hospitals were already filling with injured residents, and Kathmandu’s international airport was shut down, hampering initial relief efforts in the isolated mountainous country.
2149.txt:International rescue teams and relief supplies are also reaching Nepal's devastated capital. Equipped with heavy cutting gear and accompanied by sniffer dogs, rescue teams from countries like China are landing round-the-clock at the country's only international airport on the outskirts of Kathmandu.
2150.txt:As planeloads of supplies, doctors and relief workers from neighboring countries arrived at Kathmandu's airport, thousands of Indians lined up outside in hopes of gaining a seat on a plane returning to New Delhi.
2150.txt:With Kathmandu airport reopened, the first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. The first to respond were Nepal's neighbors - India, China and Pakistan, all of which have been jockeying for influence over the landlocked nation. Nepal remains closest to India, with which it shares deep political, cultural and religious ties.
2150.txt:Mukesh Kafle, head of the Nepal Electricity Authority, said power was restored to main government offices, the airport and hospitals.
2153.txt:The two outgoing flights had initially been scheduled to leave Israel on Sunday at 5 P.M., but the airport serving the Nepalese capital, Kathmandu, was shut down then, for a second time, due to a strong aftershock rocked the area. The two Israeli flights were then deferred to 10 P.M. Sunday but delays in receiving the necessary approval for landing pushed the departure of the flights to Monday.
2154.txt:Meanwhile, an army 747 jet loaded with supplies and 250 medical and rescue personnel took off from Ben-Gurion International Airport on Monday afternoon for the Nepalese capital.
2154.txt:Israel was also evacuating surrogate-born babies and their Israeli parents back to Israel, with five babies and their parents landing in Tel Aviv’s Sde Dov airport on Monday, in good health. The Israeli foreign ministry said it was working to bring back an additional 22 babies.
2159.txt:http://abcnews.go.com/International/nepal-earthquake-strands-americans-airport-us-embassy/story?id=30612203
2159.txt:Nepal Earthquake Strands Americans at Airport, US Embassy
2159.txt:Hundreds of American citizens are stranded in Nepal, with many sheltered at the U.S. Embassy and others desperately looking for flights at the Kathmandu airport, in the wake of the devastating 7.8-magnitude earthquake this weekend.
2159.txt:Many Americans, including Alex Diaz of New York, are waiting at the Kathmandu airport, which Diaz described as a "complete madhouse."
2159.txt:But unlike those at the Kathmandu airport looking to flee, Chicago native Ayal Weiner-Kaplow, who’s now in Kathmandu, says he plans to stay to help with the recovery.
215.txt:Local media also reported that Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu has been shut down following the earthquake.
2165.txt:“I landed half an hour before the earthquake hit. When the first big earthquake hit, it was hard to comprehend what was happening -- everyone was running out of the airport screaming,” she wrote in a message to ABC News. “Over the next 24 hours, we suffered a dozen large aftershocks that served as a constant reminder of how vulnerable we were. We slept with hundreds of Nepalese in a large, open field -- the only safe haven from the constant shocks.”
2170.txt:Sniffer dog handler Birgit Ostendorf of Germany’s NGO organisation International Search and Rescue (ISAR- Germany) prepares her dog ‘Cooper’ to board their flight to Nepal from Frankfurt airport, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic
2170.txt:Indians fight during a queue for an aircraft back to their country outside Nepal’s Tribhuvan International Airport a day after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic
2170.txt:Tourists gather inside Nepal’s Tribhuvan International Airport a day after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic
2170.txt:Workers of the German Red Cross (DRK) prepare a load of humanitarian aid for victims of the earthquake in Nepal, in front of an aircraft at Schoenefeld airport outside Berlin April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic
2170.txt:Victims of Saturday’s earthquake rest inside an Indian Air Force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic
2170.txt:People wait outside the departure terminal at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015, following the April 25 earthquake. — Reuters pic
2171.txt:Hundreds of Israeli troops and officers on a rescue mission to quake-stricken Nepal, flocked to Israel’s main Ben Gurion airport on Sunday but an Israeli commander said the mission was delayed by 12 hours in light of problems with Kathmandu’s airport tarmac.
2171.txt:Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport reopened after being closed for about an hour on Sunday afternoon due to a powerful aftershock. Both military and commercial airplanes from other countries are waiting to evacuate their nationals.
2173.txt:“The airport remains open, and we understand that many U.S. citizens are departing on commercial flights,” State Department spokesman Jeff Rathke told reporters on Monday. “We are assisting Americans there with flight arrangements. We've also been providing shuttle services to the airport given the very difficult conditions. I don't have anything to confirm about other sorts of transportation.”
2173.txt:There is no indication that personnel on these two flights will be rounding up U.S. nationals and taking them home. “I don’t know what their specific mission is there, other than to assist with search and rescue missions,” said Lt. Col. Tom Crosson, a Pentagon spokesman. Crosson added that the State Department is in charge of coordinating missions to rescue Americans, and can request the deployment of military personnel to assist with evacuations. A State Department spokeswoman declined to answer questions from HuffPost about whether there are any contingency plans to evacuate Americans if the situation at the airport gets worse.
2179.txt:“It’s very difficult to finally get into the country because of damage to the airports and so on,” Pullen said.
2183.txt:The first aircraft of the Israeli delegation to Nepal landed on Monday evening at the airport in Kathmandu.
2185.txt:Two Israeli homosexuals carry their babies at Tel Aviv airport after they were repatriated from Nepal (AFP)
2187.txt:An IDF search and rescue mission finally took off Monday morning, after delays due to damaged runways at Kathmandu airport.
2187.txt:"We have exact coordinates that we have given to three rescue organizations," said Shlomo. "The team from Harel arrived in Kathmandu 16 hours ago. Since this morning, the pilots and helicopter team has been waiting at the airport and have not had permission to take off.
2189.txt:A South Korean rescue team prepares to leave for the quake-hit area of Kathmandu at Incheon International Airport on Monday in Incheon, South Korea. Chung Sung-Jun/Getty Images
2189.txt:Sri Lankan air force personnel load emergency relief supplies to be flown to quake-hit Nepal aboard a C-130 heavy lift aircraft at the main international airport in Katunayake on Sunday.
2207.txt:Rumors are also spreading that another major quake is due to strike the Himalayan nation soon, causing an exodus of Kathmandu residents, many of whom have families in the provinces. Juna Kumal, like thousands of others, has been staying in this Tundikhel ground near the Kathmandu international airport since Saturday. "Though my families are safe but I am worried because we don't know when this disaster will leave us," she said.
2207.txt:At the nearby airport, planes are taking off continuously. Thousands are leaving the country, many foreign tourists as well as some from neighboring India who had work in Nepal. The Indian air force has fetched over 1,900 Indians home in two days' time, according to officials in Delhi.
220.txt:Nine of the infants were born premature and one is in serious condition. The Foreign Ministry told Ynet that it planned to fly out the families in helicopters from Nepal to neighboring India because the airport in Kathmandu was closed.
220.txt:The Foreign Ministry will offer Israelis a ride home on the plane. Meanwhile, the plan has yet to be set in motion because the local airport remains closed.
2219.txt:With hundreds of Indians stranded in Nepal in the wake of Saturday's 7.9-magnitude quake that killed more than 3,700 people in the Himalayan nation, officials are focusing on opening up damaged roads so that people can be evacuated in buses because the number of flights from Kathmandu airport is limited.
2219.txt:Till Monday evening, the Indian Air Force had airlifted 2,246 people in more than a dozen sorties despite bad weather and an aftershock that briefly shut the Kathmandu airport on Sunday. However, many more Indian tourists and pilgrims were stranded in the Nepalese capital and other places.
2219.txt:A Rapid Action Medical Team of the IAF began functioning at a first aid centre in Lagankhel, eight kilometres from the Kathmandu airport. Army teams will bring the injured to the centre manned by three doctors and 25 paramedics.
221.txt:Lieberman instructed his ministry to send reinforcement to the embassy in Kathmandu with staff from other embassies Israeli in the area and with Foreign Ministry staff from Israel as soon as the airport in Kathmandu resumes operations.
2221.txt:Two C-130 aircraft of the Pakistan Air Force (PAF) have landed at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu on Sunday and two more were expected to reach there on Monday, Dawn online reported.
2221.txt:The Pakistani ambassador and other embassy officials were present at the airport to extend logistical support to the relief team.
2227.txt:The trekking group had been on their way to the Everest base camp, and had to turn back because of the earthquake. They were in Nepal to raise money for a new water system at the north-eastern village of Lukla, home to the Tenzing-Hillary Airport.
2231.txt:The scale of the damage, destruction and death caused by the earthquake remains fluid,… as Nepalis dig through the rubble looking for any signs of survivors.The conditions grew worse on Sunday night, as rain pummeled the capital Kathmandu.For those who did survive, the situation is harsh.Tens of thousands of survivors slept out on the streets on Saturday night after the quake struck.Some moved into shelters on Sunday but the structures are not well constructed and their numbers are insufficient.Outside of the capital, landslides caused by the aftershocks are hampering rescue operations as workers struggle to reach remote regions of the country.The seven.eight magnitude earthquake struck just before noon on Saturday,… with the epicenter just 60 kilometers east of the capital Kathmandu.Less than a day afterward, a strong aftershock rattled the nation again, sending people back into a panic.And the underground plate that shook Nepal also sent tremors through India, China, Tibet and Bangladesh.Countries have rushed to send aid and personnel to the devastated nation,… and relief groups began arriving on Sunday.India, China and Pakistan were the first to respond.India flew in medical supplies and disaster personnel, while Pakistan is sending aircraft with necessary supplies.Korea's foreign ministry said Monday that it will send a rescue team,… along with one million U.S. dollars in humanitarian aid.Other countries including the U.S., the United Arab Emirates, Britain, Germany and France have also pledged support.Relief efforts have been hampered by aftershocks that have closed Nepal's main airport multiple times, as supplies of food, water and medicine dwindle.Shin Se-min, Arirang News.
2232.txt:http://www.latimes.com/world/asia/la-fg-katmandu-airport-20150426-story.html
2232.txt:After Nepal earthquake, chaos at Katmandu airport: 'From Paradise to Hell'
2232.txt:Under a yellow moon that hung like a wedge of lemon in the sky, Ole Andersen was camped at 3 a.m. Monday out front of Katmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport with a green notebook, writing a story he called “From Paradise to Hell in a Few Seconds.”
2232.txt:In light of the quake, they didn’t know what they would find in Nepal, but they were determined to see the country. After their plane turned back once because Katmandu’s airport was too full, they arrived early Monday.
2238.txt:Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese police officers clear debris from Durbar Square in Kathmandu on Sunday, May 3. A magnitude-7.8 earthquake centered less than 50 miles from Kathmandu rocked Nepal with devastating force Saturday, April 25. The earthquake and its aftershocks have turned one of the world's most scenic regions into a panorama of devastation, killing and injuring thousands. Hide Caption 1 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured Nepalese woman is carried by villagers toward an Indian army helicopter to be airlifted from Philim village in Gorkha district in Nepal on May 3. Hide Caption 2 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Members of the Tsayana family warm themselves next to a fire outside their damaged house on May 3 in Bhaktapur, Nepal. Hide Caption 3 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A woman receives comfort during the funeral of her mother, a victim of Nepal's deadly earthquake, on Friday, May 1, in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 4 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Hindu priests perform rituals during the cremations of victims at the Pashupatinath Temple on the banks of the Bagmati River in Kathmandu on May 1. Hide Caption 5 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People await aid from an Indian army helicopter in front of damaged homes in Kulgaun, Nepal, on May 1. Hide Caption 6 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured woman gets carried on a stretcher at Kathmandu's airport after being evacuated from Melamchi, Nepal, on May 1. Hide Caption 7 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A member of the Los Angeles County Fire Department guides his sniffing dog through a collapsed building in Kathmandu on Thursday, April 30. Hide Caption 8 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A teenage boy gets rushed to a hospital April 30 after being rescued from the debris of a building in Kathmandu days after the earthquake. Hide Caption 9 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A man is freed from the ruins of a hotel by French rescuers in the Gangabu area of Kathmandu on Tuesday, April 28. Reuters identified the man as Rishi Khanal. Hide Caption 10 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese military police search through rubble outside Kathmandu on April 28. Hide Caption 11 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People rest April 28 in a temporary housing camp in Kathmandu. Large encampments of tents have sprung up in open areas, including a wide space belonging to the military in the center of the capital. Hide Caption 12 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A family collects belongings from their home in Bhaktapur, Nepal, on Monday, April 27. Hide Caption 13 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Damaged buildings lean to the side in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 14 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Hide Caption 15 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Members of the Nepalese army retrieve bodies from a collapsed building in Bhaktapur near Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 16 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded woman to a helicopter as they evacuate people from Trishuli Bazar, Nepal, on April 27. Hide Caption 17 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People charge their cell phones in an open area in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 18 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Emergency personnel evacuate an injured man to a waiting helicopter in Trishuli Bazar on April 27. Hide Caption 19 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An aerial view of the devastation in Kathmandu on April 27. The destruction in Nepal's capital is stark: revered temples reduced to rubble, people buried in the wreckage of their homes, hospitals short on medical supplies overflowing with patients. Hide Caption 20 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Residents rescue items from the debris of houses damaged in the quake in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 21 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An aervial view shows ruined buildings in Trishuli Bazar on April 27. Hide Caption 22 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A woman prays at a ruined temple in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 23 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People rest in temporary shelters in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 24 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Residents cycle over damaged roads on the outskirts of Kathmandu on Sunday, April 26. Hide Caption 25 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Four-month-old Sonit Awal is held up by Nepalese army soldiers after being rescued from the rubble of his house in Bhaktapur, Nepal, on April 26. Hide Caption 26 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The newspaper that provided photographs of the baby's rescue says the Nepalese army initially left the site, thinking the baby had not survived. Hours later when the infant's cries were heard, soldiers came back and rescued him. Hide Caption 27 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The newspaper adds the Nepalese Army had initially failed to rescue the baby and left the site thinking the baby had not survived. Hours later when the baby's cries were heard the army came back and rescued him. Hide Caption 28 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A woman cries after identifying the body of a relative in Bhaktapur on April 26. Hide Caption 29 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Men clear debris in Bhaktapur on April 26. Hide Caption 30 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A truck evacuates residents from Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 31 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A Buddha statue is surrounded by debris on April 26 from a collapsed temple in the UNESCO world heritage site of Bhaktapur. Hide Caption 32 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An elderly woman is helped to her home after being treated for her injuries in Bhaktapur on April 26. Hide Caption 33 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Family members break down on April 26 during the cremation of a loved one killed in Bhaktapur. Hide Caption 34 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Smoke from funeral pyres fills the air at the Pashupatinath temple on the banks of Bagmati River in Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 35 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Members of India's National Disaster Response Force look for survivors in Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 36 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescue workers remove debris on April 26 as they search for victims in Bhaktapur. Hide Caption 37 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People look at the debris of one of the oldest temples in Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 38 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People sleep on a street in Kathmandu, Nepal, on Saturday, April 25. A seemingly endless series of aftershocks continued to roil the area, further traumatizing survivors. Hide Caption 39 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Civilian rescuers carry a person on a stretcher in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 40 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People try to free a man from the rubble in Kathmandu on April 25. Cheers rose from the piles when people were found alive -- but mostly bodies turned up. Hide Caption 41 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Pedestrians walk past collapsed buildings in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 42 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Azim Afif, of the Universiti Teknologi Malaysia climbing team, provided this photo of their Mount Everest base camp after it was ravaged by an avalanche triggered by the earthquake on April 25. All of Afif's five-member team survived. Hide Caption 43 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescuers clear rubble in Kathmandu's Basantapur Durbar Square on April 25. Hide Caption 44 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A temple on Hanumandhoka Durbar Square lies in ruins after an earthquake in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 45 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Dharahara, a tower dating back to 1832 that rose more than 60 meters (200 feet) and provided breathtaking views of Kathmandu and the surrounding Himalayas, collapsed in the earthquake on April 25. Hide Caption 46 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The hand of a statue is seen under debris in Basantapur Durbar Square in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 47 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese man and woman hold each other in Kathmandu's Basantapur Durbar Square on April 25. Hide Caption 48 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A victim of Nepal's earthquake lies in the debris of Dharahara after it collapsed on April 25 in Kathmandu, Nepal. Hide Caption 49 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescuers look for victims under a collapsed building in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 50 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Volunteers carry a body recovered from the debris of a collapsed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 51 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A victim's body is seen in the debris of the collapsed Dharahara on April 25. Hide Caption 52 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Emergency rescue workers carry a victim from Dharahara after the tower in Kathmandu collapsed on April 25. Hide Caption 53 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People free a man from the rubble of a destroyed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 54 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A man walks past a collapsed temple at Basantapur Durbar Square. Hide Caption 55 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescue workers clear debris in Kathmandu while searching for survivors. Hide Caption 56 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People huddle together outside a hospital in Kathmandu. Eyewitnesses said residents were scared and waiting for aftershocks to end. Hide Caption 57 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People search for survivors stuck under the rubble of a destroyed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 58 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Injured people receive treatment in Kathmandu. A CNN reporter said medics were focused on treating the most severely injured. Hide Caption 59 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Emergency rescue workers search for survivors in the debris of Dharahara on April 25. Hide Caption 60 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured child lies on the ground outside a hospital in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 61 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People help with rescue efforts at the site of a collapsed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 62 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured child receives treatment outside Medicare Hospital in Kathmandu on April 25. Residents, after a relentless series of aftershocks, have been remaining outdoors. Hide Caption 63 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The rubble of collapsed walls fills a street in Lalitpur, on the outskirts of Kathmandu, on April 25. Hide Caption 64 of 64
2239.txt:Since Sunday evening, after a brief closure of Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport following fresh tremors, flight operations have resumed and the stranded Indians have begun returning.
2240.txt:But there has been little sign of international assistance on the ground so far, with some aid flights prevented from landing by aftershocks that closed Kathmandu's main airport several times on Sunday.
2244.txt:While some elected to stay the night in tents, the CAMS contingent soon headed for the airport for a hastily arranged evening flight.
2244.txt:That was subsequently cancelled, leaving the group to experience further aftershocks from within the airport before flying out Sunday evening.
2244.txt:“Just on the way to the airport we saw cars everywhere, rolled over, and people all in the street not wanting to be indoors when the aftershocks came through.
2244.txt:“They made sure we had food and water to get through. We sat in the airport for almost 24 hours and there were quite a few aftershocks.
2246.txt:"We are seeing that the Nepali government has a couple of bottlenecks in terms of delivering aid. They have neither a useful fast-track system for importing relief materials nor a useful system for receiving and warehousing relief materials," he told DW. As a result, relief materials are piled up in transit airports or border crossings.
2249.txt:A man sits with a child on his lap as victims of Saturday’s earthquake, wait for ambulances after being evacuated at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal on April 27, 2015.
2250.txt:"Roads leading out of the mountain valley city of one million were jammed with people, many with babies in their arms, trying to climb onto buses or hitch a ride aboard cars and trucks. "Huge queues had formed at Kathmandu airport with people desperate to get a flight out."
2251.txt:The Kathmandu airport reopened today (Monday) but the problem is acute congestion as there are too many incoming and outgoing flights.
2256.txt:Some aid flights were unable to land as Kathmandu's main airport was closed several times on Sunday as a result of aftershocks. Some aid vehicles traveled over land from Indian to Pokhara, a Nepalese city 80 km from the epicenter.
2257.txt:In addition to the ten children, four adults live in the three-story concrete home. The children range in age from four to 14. Located approximately a half mile from Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, the orphanage is in a "slightly less dense" and residential area, Velie said.
2258.txt:While the aid continued to pour into Kathmandu airport, officials said they were scrambling to get the assistance to those in need in the city and beyond. Officials said on Monday that the confirmed death toll had climbed above 3,700, with more than 6,300 injured. These figures were expected to continue to rise, as reports from some of the country's remote villages were only beginning to trickle in.
2259.txt:However, congestion at Kathamandu's airport has caused delays, with Indian TV reporting that an Indian relief flight was forced to turn back.
2263.txt:As planeloads of supplies, doctors and relief workers from neighbouring countries arrived at Kathmandu’s airport, thousands of Indians lined up outside in hopes of gaining a seat on a plane returning to New Delhi.
2267.txt:A Department for International Development-chartered flight left Standstead airport at 9.15pm last night. The flight had been bound for Kathmandu, but heavy air traffic at the airport meant that the flight was diverted to Delhi, where it landed this morning, with the firefighters awaiting confirmation of their onward travel arrangements.
2268.txt:A man sits with a child on his lap as victims of Saturday’s earthquake, wait for ambulances after being evacuated at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, Monday, April 27, 2015. The death toll from Nepal's earthquake is expected to rise depended largely on the condition of vulnerable mountain villages that rescue workers were still struggling to reach two days after the disaster. Altaf Qadri AP
2273.txt:But experts from Urban Search and Rescue (USAR) were stood down yesterday, told by the Nepalese government not to come because Kathmandu Airport couldn't handle any more planes.
2273.txt:"The Nepalese government have got the right – and so they should – for organising and arranging the sovereignty of their country. For so many aid agencies – including USAR – to respond so quickly into the country, it means the logistical nightmare for them at the airport is horrendous."
2276.txt:“I just saw an update that the airport is now open. I am checking with a few city organisations to see if anyone is going or not. But whether or not I get support from the organisations here, I will just travel there and try to reach out to local NGOs,” he says. His drive comes from a personal connect with the country.
2286.txt:They are expected to arrive in Nepal by early Wednesday morning, although that timeline is in question because of earthquake damage at the airport in the capital city.
2288.txt:Nepalese rescuers carry an injured person to a waiting Indian air force helicopter as they evacuate victims of Saturday’s earthquake from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal.
2289.txt:A total of 228 people, including at least seven foreigners, were evacuated by the two airlines from Kathmandu airport, yesterday. Stranded Bhutanese were not charged fares by the two airlines and the costs are likely to be worked out between the government and the airlines later. National airline Drukair conducted two relief flights bringing in 197 passengers, while Tashi Air flew in 31. Both airlines also carried a few tons of relief supplies into Kathmandu.
2298.txt:The group would travel to the country in a private chartered plane as airports had been closed to incoming commercial flights.
2298.txt:Neighbouring countries sent in military transport planes laden with supplies. But little sign of organised relief efforts was visible as aid agencies struggled to fly helicopters in cloudy weather, aftershocks forced the intermittent closure of Kathmandu airport and roads were blocked by landslides.
2303.txt:Substantial logistical hurdles remained, but there were hopeful signs as Kathmandu’s airport reopened after Saturday’s crushing earthquake.
2303.txt:The Pakistani ambassador to Nepal and other staff of the embassy were present at the airport to extend logistical support to the Pakistani relief assistance team.
2304.txt:The airport is currently closed so they may have to cross the border into India if they can't get home soon.
2305.txt:Even as governments and voluntary organisations rushed to the aid of people affected in Saturday’s earthquake in Nepal, many stranded Indians waited at the Kathmandu airport for return flights. Sathishkumar Elanthirayan, who spoke to The Hindu over phone on Sunday afternoon, said there was chaos at the airport.
2315.txt:Kathmandu international airport has been shut down due to high intensity quakes and Mobile services in the city have been badly-affected.
231.txt:Within hours, an Indian Air Force C-130 landed at at Katmandu's airport with 39 disaster relief workers and 3.5 metric tons of supplies, according to a spokesman for the Ministry of Defense.
231.txt:Dhany Osman, an editor with The Straits Times of Singapore said he was at Katmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport when the quake struck.
2327.txt:With Kathmandu airport reopened, the first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. The first to respond were Nepal’s neighbors — India, China and Pakistan, all of which have been jockeying for influence over the landlocked nation. Nepal remains closest to India, with which it shares deep political, cultural and religious ties.
2327.txt:Workers were sending out tents and relief goods in trucks and helicopters and setting up shelters, said disaster management official Rameshwar Dangal. Mukesh Kafle, the head of the Nepal Electricity Authority, said power was restored to main government offices, the airport and hospitals.
2332.txt:The Ministry of Defence had earlier in the day announced that an Indian Air Force (IAF) plane carrying 291 passengers rescued from earthquake struck Nepal landed at the Palam airport this morning.
2338.txt:They said relief materials are being flown into Kathmandu but there were problems in getting the aid out of the airport as there were few staff to unload cargo and little transportation to get relief supplies to survivors.
2340.txt:http://wavy.com/2015/04/27/congested-airport-slows-local-aid-response-to-nepal-disaster/
2340.txt:Congested airport slows local aid response to Nepal disaster
2340.txt:VIRGINIA BEACH, Va. (WAVY) – Operation Blessing plans to reach devastated areas outside of Kathmandu today. Earlier, 10 On Your Side reported the organization had trouble getting its team on the ground in Nepal, because the airport is so congested.
2340.txt:“The whole plane is filled with search and rescue teams,” said Bill Horan, president of Operation Blessing. “It’s very frustrating. There are people from all over the world trying to get in there, but there’s a bottleneck at that airport, and that’s not going to change any time soon.”
2343.txt:Smaller nonprofits and church groups from all over the world will send clothing and canned goods and toys for children and more clothing and more canned goods and more toys and school supplies. Shipping containers will clog up the airport and border crossings, and will be hard to move from there. After hurricane Mitch, and I have heard after the earthquake in Haiti, whole shipping containers of clothing had to be put in the landfill because the roads were out, there was just no way to move them, and they just kept arriving and piling up. These donations can be truly helpful. But most of us should just send money, to a well-vetted group like Oxfam or MSF.
2343.txt:People will show up at the airport in Kathmandu in the days and weeks to come, well-meaning volunteers travelling on their own or in "missions," many of whom will not know the language, will have little or no training in any truly needed skill, will perhaps be robbed in Kathmandu or get lost or fall ill, and will ultimately need more assistance than they can possibly give.
2350.txt:On Monday, thousands streamed out of Kathmandu. Roads leading from the city were jammed with people, some carrying babies, trying to climb onto buses or hitch rides aboard cars and trucks to the plains. Long queues had formed at the airport.
2352.txt:At the request of the Chinese embassy in Nepal, 1,500 Chinese tourists have already been transported from Kathmandu to China. 500 Chinese nationals are still stranded at the airport and the embassy is coordinating with airlines to bring them home.
2356.txt:Taiwan has reported that Nepal rejected its offer of a 20-man rescue team. File picture shows members of Chinese International Search and Rescue Team and their rescue dogs boarding a charted plane to Kathmandu, at Beijing Airport. — Reuters picTAIPEI, April 27 — Taiwan’s foreign minister said today the government of earthquake-devastated Nepal had rejected its offer of a 20-man rescue team, but denied diplomatic pressures were behind the decision.
2356.txt:Sniffer dog handler Birgit Ostendorf of Germany’s NGO organisation International Search and Rescue (ISAR- Germany) prepares her dog ‘Cooper’ to board their flight to Nepal from Frankfurt airport, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic
2356.txt:Indians fight during a queue for an aircraft back to their country outside Nepal’s Tribhuvan International Airport a day after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic
2356.txt:Tourists gather inside Nepal’s Tribhuvan International Airport a day after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic
2356.txt:Workers of the German Red Cross (DRK) prepare a load of humanitarian aid for victims of the earthquake in Nepal, in front of an aircraft at Schoenefeld airport outside Berlin April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic
2356.txt:Victims of Saturday’s earthquake rest inside an Indian Air Force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic
2356.txt:People wait outside the departure terminal at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015, following the April 25 earthquake. — Reuters pic
2357.txt:A Chinese military's IL-76 transportation plane at an airport on April 27, 2015. [Photo/People.cn]
2357.txt:Two of the aircraft were stationed at Chengdu Shuangliu International Airport in Sichuan province and another was at Kunming Changshui International Airport, according to People.cn.
2358.txt:While Indian officials have taken the lead on rescue and relief efforts, Sunday's aftershock complicated travel to and from Nepal. The Kathmandu airport was shut down briefly and several planes were forced to return to the airports they took off from.
2358.txt:"The sustained operation of that airport in Kathmandu is what is being seen as essential on the Indian side. ... It's quite a logistical challenge on a regular day to get through these borders, let alone when you're trying to get aid through," Al Jazeera's Nidhi Dutt reported.
235.txt:Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who was attending a summit in Jakarta, tried to rush back home but made it as far as Bangkok where his connecting flight to Kathmandu was canceled because the capital’s international airport was shut down for commercial flights.
2362.txt:"Two C-130 aircraft of Pakistan Air Force carrying more than 50,000 lbs of relief goods arrived at the Tribhuvan International Airport, Kathmandu," Foreign Office said.
2362.txt:The Ambassador of Pakistan and other Embassy officials were present at the Airport to facilitate and extend logistical support to Pakistan Relief Assistance Team.
2364.txt:The C-17 is scheduled to arrive at 5 a.m. Wednesday, Kenney said, but there may be delays because of damage to the Kathmandu airport.
2364.txt:Paradis clarified there is no embassy in Kathmandu, only an honorary consul, which was instructed to work around the clock to provide assistance. Consular officials are en route to Kathmandu, he said, but are having trouble getting there because of the damage to the airport.
2365.txt:The small size of the airport in Kathmandu has made relief efforts difficult. Some earlier flights were forced to turn back.
2371.txt:Hundreds of local and foreign passengers seeking shelter at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu were seen helplessly stranded.
2371.txt:The quake was followed by continuous aftershocks and heavy rains throughout the night, forcing the airport to temporarily close down.
2375.txt:“They are now preparing to return to Malaysia by Wednesday as the airport is now open. We will feel at ease once they are home,” she said.
2380.txt:Help poured in after the 7.8 magnitude quake, with countries large and small sending medical and rescue teams, aircraft and basic supplies. The small airport in the capital of Kathmandu was congested and chaotic, with some flights forced to turn back early in the day.
2389.txt:International rescue teams and relief supplies are also reaching Nepal's devastated capital. Equipped with heavy cutting gear and accompanied by sniffer dogs, rescue teams from countries like China are landing round-the-clock at the country's only international airport on the outskirts of Kathmandu.
238.txt:Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who was attending a summit in Jakarta, tried to rush back home but made it as far as Bangkok where his connecting flight to Kathmandu was cancelled because the capital's international airport was shut down for commercial flights.
2391.txt:THAI operates flights to Nepal as normal and sets up help unit for its pas?sengersTHAI AIRWAYS INTERNATIONAL (THAI) will continue operating flights between Bangkok's Suvarnabhumi Airport and Kathmandu despite the huge earthquake in Nepal, the airline's president said yesterday.
2391.txt:Tribhuvan International Airport was temporarily closed after the quake but was reopened for services after a security check.
2393.txt:Facebook Twitter Pinterest Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded woman to a waiting Indian air force helicopter as they evacuate victims from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport. Photograph: Altaf Qadri/AP
2394.txt:It was pure luck, they say, when Mane’s family put them in touch with the Indian embassy’s emergency number. “The embassy asked us to reach the airport somehow,” he added.
2396.txt:"The plan was to try and get them down to Lukla as quickly as we could, to the airport to get them back to Kathmandu, but the weather's been pretty poor so there's been no flights out of Lukla at this stage."
2396.txt:Meanwhile, an Australian survivor of the Nepalese earthquake who has just arrived at Sydney Airport says she nearly didn't make it home.
2396.txt:"It was the longest half hour of my life, they had to check the runway to make sure it was safe to fly and luckily my plane took off but many people didn't get on that plane and I don't know if the airport reopened," she said.
2404.txt:“A few minutes of earthquake has devastated my whole family and house and savings. I have to first find my family, then rebuild the house. I don’t know how I will do it. Everything is now upside down,” he said at Sharjah International Airport yesterday before his flight.
2409.txt:ISLAMABAD - In line with the directives of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, two Pakistani C-130 aircrafts carrying relief goods for earthquake victims landed in Kathmandu, said a Foreign Office press release issued Sunday.It said that relief assistance included medical team of doctors and paramedics, 30-ded hospital, medicines, tents, water, dry food, search and rescue team.According to the ISPR, the medical team included army doctors, including surgical, medical, orthopedic, gynecologist, anesthesiologist, child specialist, radiologist and paramedics.Pakistan's Ambassador and Embassy officials were present at the Kathmandu Airport to facilitate and extend logistical support to Relief Assistance Team.Besides assisting Nepal in relief efforts, the Embassy also reached out to Pakistani Expatriate Community Members to extend them necessary support.Two more Pakistani C-130 aircrafts with relief assistance are due to leave for Kathmandu today (Monday).A C-130 aircraft returned home after delivering relief items to earthquake affected areas in Nepal. It also brought thirty Pakistani nationals affected by the earthquake.Rescue missions and aid material have started arriving in Nepal for relief and rehabilitation of quake victims.Over 2000 people have been killed in devastating quake in Nepal. A powerful aftershock was felt on Sunday in Nepal, India and Bangladesh and more avalanches were reported near Everest.The death toll from the original earthquake could rise, as the situation is unclear in remote areas which remain cut off or hard to access.Meanwhile, a statement issued by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) said that earthquake measuring 7.9 on the Ricther scale that struck an area between the capital Kathmandu and the city of Pokhara in Nepal yesterday has caused massive damage at the epicenter. In response to this devastating earthquake and to express solidarity with the affected people, the government of Pakistan has extended full support in terms of technical expertise and provision of relief to the neighboring country Nepal in this hour of need to handle the unprecedented emergency. The PM has directed NDMA to render maximum assistance to Nepal for rescue and relief operations following the devastating earthquake on 25 April 2015. Towards this end, NDMA with the active support of Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Army and PAF has coordinated the dispatch relief goods, food items, army medical team and specialist USAR team of Army / NDMA. Also as per the directives of Prime Minister, NDMA will be dispatching another two C-130 aircrafts comprising food items, tents, blankets and medicines for over 1,000 families. For this purpose NDMA's relief items are reaching the airport at this moment. Being the apex National disaster management authority, NDMA is actively monitoring Pakistan's relief operation in Nepal well in coordination with relevant departments to ensure maximum assistance to earthquake hit people of Nepal.
2412.txt:It is planned that the first flight of the Airbus 310 of the Spanish Air Force, in which the minister arrived yesterday in New Delhi, split airport the Indian capital this afternoon to evacuate the Spaniards who are already in Kathmandu.
2414.txt:The international airport in Kathmandu, the capital of Nepal, has been operating normally since Sunday, with passenger planes and aircraft carrying relief supplies arriving from various countries worldwide.
2414.txt:However, some people — mostly Indian nationals — had been waiting at the airport for two days to be evacuated. Indian authorities said they had evacuated 1,935 stranded citizens in Nepal, with officials in New Delhi saying the Indian Air Force had flown 12 missions to bring residents home, including many children.
2420.txt:Joffrey Monnier/MSF MSF teams checking in 800 kg of medical material at the Brussels airport on their way to Nepal in response to the 25th of April 2015 earthquake.
2421.txt:The capital’s airport was so congested with military planes attempting to land that a flight carrying 70 members of Japan’s national search-and-rescue team circled futilely and eventually had to be rerouted to Kolkata for refueling.
2421.txt:Nepali passengers on the plane said they had received text messages from those at Kathmandu airport informing them of a chaotic situation there, with Indian nationals overwhelming the facility, hoping to get on evacuation flights.
2429.txt:Because airports in Nepal have resumed operations, the Executive Yuan said it saw no need to launch a special operation to bring all of Taiwan's nationals home.
2433.txt:At least 1,152 people died in Kathmandu, but aid workers fear the situation could be far worse near the epicentre west of the city. As planeloads of supplies, doctors and relief workers from nearby countries arrived at Kathmandu's airport, thousands of Indians lined up outside in the hope of gaining a seat on a plane returning to New Delhi.
2435.txt:As the Kathmandu airport was shut down after the runway was damaged by the quake, Israelis were airlifted to India by helicopters, from where they are flown to their home country.
2446.txt:It read: “Hi this is Khristian. Matthew is fine and in Namche Bazaar. We are heading south to lukla airport tomorrow in hopes of flying out of Kathmandu as soon as possible. He sends his love.”
2448.txt:Johannesburg, Apr 26: South African’s rescue and relief organisation ‘Gift of the Givers’ is ready to go to Nepal with specialised equipment to provide assistance after the powerful earthquake that killed more than 2,400 people. “Gift of the Givers is ready to respond; the restricting factors being the closure of Kathmandu Airport to commercial flights, the availability of visas to a neighbouring country and accessibility to Nepal through this neighbouring country,” said Imitiaz Sooliman, the head of the organisation.
2449.txt:The worst-affected areas are interior regions, which are difficult to reach, especially after roads were severely damaged following the temblor.Several shops in the capital city - parts of which still wear a deserted look - have remained shut, causing hardships to people in terms of accessing basic food items like milk.Waiwai - precooked noodles popular in Nepal and Bhutan, chips and biscuits have been the source of food to many.Long serpentine queues could be seen outside petrol pumps across Kathmandu as the Himalayan nation depends on oil imports."The police and military authorities have been manning the petrol pumps to avoid chaos," said a taxi driver."There has been no supply of milk for the past three days. There is also no electricity in some parts. Elders can manage, but what about children and elderly people?!" said Dekh Bahadur, who resides near the Tribhuvan International Airport."Good drinking water is also a major issue. Nepal police and army have been providing us with water, but even that is very little for so many people," he added.
244.txt:The fresh aftershocks forced Kathmandu airport to close for around an hour as air traffic controllers evacuated their centre. Several flights had to be diverted in mid-air.
2450.txt:In the aftermath of the devastating earthquake in Nepal, some Singaporeans are camped out in the Kathmandu airport waiting to leave, some have made it home, while others are still unaccounted for.
2450.txt:KATHMANDU: Thirty-one year old Diana Fu was supposed to be flying home from Nepal on Monday night (Apr 27) via an Republic of Singapore Air Force (RSAF) plane, but due to congestion in the Kathmandu airport, the plan did not materialise.
2450.txt:Ms Fu and a few others are waiting at the airport for a flight out on Tuesday morning. She told Channel NewsAsia she had just arrived at Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport with her cousin when the earthquake struck on Saturday.
2450.txt:Some of the Singaporeans she met, managed to get hotel accommodation, while others were camped at the airport she said.
2450.txt:Ms Raihan Ruslan, a yoga instructor who was holidaying in Nepal, returned to Singapore at 11pm on Sunday night. Looking visibly emotional at Changi Airport, she said: "It was like a really bad disaster movie that I wasn't supposed to be in. I wanted to go for a yoga course and take it easy there."
2450.txt:Ms Raihan, who is four months pregnant, said things were "uncertain" at Kathmandu's airport. "We didn't even know if a flight was going to come in at all ... Just a flight out, that's all we needed."
2450.txt:Ms Shasta Kaul was holidaying in Nepal with her mother, Mrs Minakshi Kaul. Prior to securing a flight home, they said the situation at Kathmandu Airport was "chaotic".
2456.txt:"Within two days of the quake, 12 Chinese civil jets had carried more than 1,600 Chinese stranded at the Kathmandu Airport in Nepal," said a statement released by the Foreign Ministry on Monday evening.
2460.txt:Since Sunday evening, after a brief closure of Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport following fresh tremors, flight operations have resumed and the stranded Indians have begun returning.
2461.txt:airport to assist Indian Embassy officials in the air evacuation of stranded Indians.
2464.txt:Several Kashmir businessmen in Kathmandu on Monday alleged that they were left in the lurch by Indian authorities in quake-hit Nepal and it was due to their own efforts that some among them managed to reach the airport where they are waiting to being airlifted.
2464.txt:Speaking over phone from Kathmandu International Airport, one of the stranded businessmen from Kashmir, who preferred to give his first name, said: “We are in distress. No one is helping us and the situation is worse. There is no food and water. No one is receiving our calls on helpline numbers of Indian Embassy. It was only due to our own efforts, we have been able to reach the Kathmandu Airport.”
2464.txt:The anxious businessman, Waseem, from Kashmir said he and his family were residing at Naya Bazar which is some 8 kilometers from Kathmandu Airport. “The taxi which we hired charged us 5000 rupees from Naya Bazar,” he said, adding: “I managed to push my family and several other people inside the airport but now I am left outside with some other people.”
2464.txt:Another businessman, on the condition of the anonymity, said: “Don’t tell us about these helplines (sic) established by Indian Embassy. Forget about us, they aren’t even able to take care of themselves. It was all due to our own efforts and self help we are here at the airport.”
2465.txt:RAJKOT: At least 40 students of Rajkot's Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Medical College are stranded in Nepal that has been ravaged by a killer earthquake. However, state emergency response centre confirmed that all the students are safe and will be brought back soon.Rajkot district disaster control room officials said they have received a message that over 40 students got stranded in Gorakhpur on their return journey from the Himalayan country."All arrangements are being done to bring them back safely," said an official."We have received the message about our college students being stranded in Nepal. The students may have gone on their own as there was no any official tour from the college. We are in touch with the state's emergency response Centre to get more details," Dr M R Mehta, dean of PDU Medical College, told TOI.Meanwhile, nine people, eight from Surat and one from Junagadh, were brought back to New Delhi on Sunday morning by the Indian Air Force plane. They were expected to return by Sunday night.Talking to TOI, Mehul Vora from Junagadh said, "We were coming out of Pashupatinath temple when we heard a loud rumbling noise. Suddenly, everything started trembling. We somehow managed to reach our hotel and contacted Indian Embassy which asked us to reach Kathmandu Airport by 8pm. There was a long queue of people and our turn came at 3am. We reached Delhi at 5am and were taken to Gujarat Bhavan." Vora and his group had gone to Nepal on April 20.Meanwhile, L R Damor, deputy collector of Chotila and J M Bhatt, deputy collector of Dhrangdhra, who had gone to Kathmandu to help pilgrims injured in the recent bus accident, have been told to extend their stay to assist state's relief operations and to bring back Gujarati pilgrims and tourists."Five patients, who were critically injured in the accident, are in ICU but are safe and undergoing treatment in Kathmandu," said an official.Also, a tremor measuring 2.3 on Richter scale occurred 35km south-west of Surendranagar at 8:24am on Sunday.
2482.txt:Members of China International Search and Rescue Team (CISAR) work at the rescue site in Nepal's capital Katmandu on April 28, 2015. CISAR members successfully found the second earthquake survivor after 34-hour rescue work in Katmandu on Monday. [Photo: Xinhua/Bai Yang] 0411Clinton.mp3 The Nepalese government now says the death toll from Saturday's earthquake has exceeded 43-hundered. More than 9-thousand people are reportedly injured. CRI's Huang Shan reports on the current situation in Kathmandu. Damaged roads, broken communication lines and landslides, as well as a lack of earth-moving equipment in rural areas have made relief efforts difficult. Local authorities and international aid teams have intensified rescue operations. More than 1.4-million people in Nepal have been moved to safer places. CEO of the International Humanitarian City, Shaima Al Zarooni, mentions the challenges faced by rescue teams. "Our major challenge is actually reaching Kathmandu due to the fact that there are aftershocks and the airport was not open unless again yesterday and therefore there are some flight congestions over there. Arrival of humanitarian trained staff on the ground is another challenge for passenger flights are not operating so there are some logistical challenges but we hope that we are overcoming them by this first aircraft." In order to save more lives after the 72-hour golden window, China's Medical Aid Expert Li Zonghao suggests that it is better to combine engineering rescue and medical rescue during operations. "To rescue victims from rubble is a difficult job. After being buried under debris for hours, people may suffer from crush syndrome, water shortage, and a decline in body function. If we can put engineering and medical rescue into action at the same time, it can save time and save lives. After engineers evaluate the safety standard of rescue scenes, medical teams can immediately initiate treatment for victims." Besides rescue problems, the capital Kathmandu is also undergoing a scarcity of water and some places have even experiencing blackouts in the past 50 hours. In local hospitals, medicine is running short, which has put pressure on rescue operations. The Local government confirms that it has begun to distribute relief materials to the public in open spaces. But more relief materials including tents, dry food, mattresses, medicine, and other essentials are still needed. The international community has spared no efforts to help Nepal in the aftermath of the disaster. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hong Lei, says China will send aid personnel and materials to earth-hit regions. "China is set to dispatch about 170 people to Nepal for rescue and medical operations. The Chinese government will also deliver 186 tons of relief supplies to quake-stricken region, including tents and blankets." China has already sent three aid teams to Nepal, and the first batch of relief goods has already arrived in Kathmandu. For CRI, I'm Huang Shan.
2487.txt:Lucette Dillon took this video on a go pro while in a taxi on the way to the airport in Kathmandu showing the aftermath of the powerful earthquake that struck Nepal and the surrounding regions.
2487.txt:"The Nepalese government is working through the large number of offers and it's got a problem with congestion at Kathmandu airport."
2491.txt:The Singapore Armed Forces’ C-130 planes, diverted to Kolkata and Patna in India due to air traffic congestion at Kathmandu airport, set off for Nepal on Tuesday (Apr 28).
2491.txt:Two of the C-130 planes were diverted to Kolkata, India on Monday from Kathmandu Airport. One of the Republic’s C-130 planes was diverted to Patna, India, which is nearer to Kathmandu. The planes are meant to help transport Singaporeans home as well.
2491.txt:In a Facebook post on Monday evening, Defence Minister Ng Eng Hen said conditions in Kathmandu can be challenging, as the airport is about 1,300m above sea level and weather conditions can change rapidly, according to ground commanders.
2492.txt:SINGAPORE - Plans to evacuate Singaporeans out of quake-hit Nepal have been delayed as three Republic of Singapore Air Force C-130 planes did not land at Kathmandu Airport on Monday.
2492.txt:Defence Minister Ng Eng Hen said in a Facebook post on Monday that the diversions were due to congestion at Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport.
2492.txt:"Ground commanders tell me that conditions at Kathmandu can be challenging. The airport is about 1,300m above sea level and weather conditions can change rapidly.
2493.txt:Huge queues had formed at the city's Tribhuvan International Airport, with tourists and residents desperate to get a flight out. "I'm willing even to sell the gold I'm wearing to buy a ticket, but there is nothing available," said Rama Bahadur, an Indian woman who works in Nepal's capital.
2493.txt:However, there has been little sign of international assistance on the ground so far, with some aid flights prevented from landing by aftershocks that closed Kathmandu's airport several times on Sunday.
2493.txt:On Monday, an Indian air force relief plane returned to New Delhi because of congestion at the airport, Indian television reported.
2494.txt:Priority at the damaged international airport in the Nepalese capital, Kathmandu, was given to aid flights carrying either doctors or search teams, said Capt. Chezki, an Israeli air force pilot who landed an early aid flight and then returned to Israel. He could only be identified by his first name according to Israeli military guidelines.
2494.txt:"It's a challenge," he said. "A lot of the airport was damaged."
2494.txt:Aid experts said disruptions at the airport are likely to continue, slowing the arrival and distribution of vitally needed supplies.
2494.txt:"The challenge now is getting the airport up and running," he said from Brunswick, in the U.S. state of Georgia, where he is organizing the shipment that will likely be sent from the Netherlands via a commercial cargo flight.
2494.txt:He said the huge amount of aid being sent means the airport will be challenged to accommodate all of the flights.
2494.txt:United Nations spokesman Farhan Haq said the UN is releasing $15 million from its central emergency response fund to help victims. But he also acknowledged problems getting relief supplies into the country and the pressure on the airport.
2495.txt:But the airport was closed, roads and bridges damaged, and tons of rubble are blocking the streets and alleys of Kathmandu. Water supply pipes, electricity generating sub-stations, bridges, treatment plants – all these things will be affected, and food, water, fuel and medicines will be immediately in short-supply. From today people will start skipping meals and to rely on friends and relatives for support. Some will be moving to areas they consider more safe, where they will set up camps. Others will choose to stay close to their belongings and shattered homes, perhaps waiting for missing relatives. They will start selling assets in “distress sales”. They will use what food, cash, and property they have just to get by. They will start borrowing. Many poor Nepalese will already be in debt.
2496.txt:Priority at the damaged international airport in the Nepalese capital Kathmandu was given to aid flights carrying either doctors or search teams, said Capt. Chezki, an Israeli air force pilot who landed an early aid flight and then returned to Israel. He could only be identified by his first name according to Israeli military guidelines.
2496.txt:"It's a challenge," he said. "Not every plane is able to land and a lot of the airport was damaged."
2496.txt:Aid experts said disruptions at the airport are likely to continue, slowing the arrival and distribution of vitally needed supplies.
2496.txt:"The challenge now is getting the airport up and running," he said from Brunwsick, Georgia, in the United States, where he is organizing the shipment that will likely be sent from the Netherlands via a commercial cargo flight.
2496.txt:He said the huge amount of aid being sent means the airport will be challenged to accommodate all of the flights.
2497.txt:Foreign tourists and climbers waiting at the airport for a flight out of Nepal following the earthquake on Saturday.
2497.txt:There are officially 121 Spaniards living in the Nepalese capital, of whom 40 spent the night inside the offices of a Spanish construction company named San José, which is working on the airport’s new terminal.
24.txt:Most of the area were without power and water Sunday, but with Kathamandu airport reopened, first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. Workers were sending out tents and relief goods in trucks and helicopters, said disaster management official Rameshwar Dangal.
2500.txt:He described chaos at the hotel where he was staying and at the Tribhuvan International Airport.
2503.txt:"We are facing huge logistical difficulties. As well as roads being closed, aftershocks have prevented planes from landing at Kathmandu airport."
2504.txt:The team departed from Stansted Airport at 9.15am yesterday (Sunday, April 26).
2509.txt:Nine West Midlands Fire Service firefighters have jetted off from Stansted airport, near London, last night (Sunday) to help after a quake measuring 7.9 on the Richter Scale struck 80K northwest of the capital Kathmandu on Saturday.
2509.txt:However - heavy air traffic at Kathmandu airport saw them diverted to Delhi where they landed earlier today (Monday April 27) to await further onward travel to the disaster zone in Nepal where thousands are thought to have died with many more still trapped.
2510.txt:"We are facing huge logistical difficulties. As well as roads being closed, aftershocks have prevented planes from landing at Kathmandu airport.
2511.txt:"We are facing huge logistical difficulties. As well as roads being closed, aftershocks have prevented planes from landing at Kathmandu airport.
2512.txt:"We are facing huge logistical difficulties. As well as roads being closed, aftershocks have prevented planes from landing at Kathmandu airport.
2514.txt:"We are facing huge logistical difficulties. As well as roads being closed, aftershocks have prevented planes from landing at Kathmandu airport."
2515.txt:"We are facing huge logistical difficulties. As well as roads being closed, aftershocks have prevented planes from landing at Kathmandu airport."
2520.txt:Barrows keeps checking her daughter's itinerary. Lightfoot has been set to fly into Los Angeles International Airport on May 27.
253.txt:The death toll was likely to continue to rise — perhaps dramatically — as more information comes in from remote and isolated regions affected by the magnitude 7.8 quake. The Associated Press says that the earthquake "shook several cities across northern India, and was felt as far away as Lahore in Pakistan, Lhasa in Tibet, and in Dhaka, Bangladesh." Kathmandu's international airport was shut down following the temblor, the news agency says.
2546.txt:The exodus came as international rescue teams with sniffer dogs raced to find survivors buried in rubble, and teams equipped with heavy cutting gear and relief supplies landed at the nation’s only international airport.
2547.txt:4310 people were killed in the heavy earthquake in Nepal. 7853 were injured and thousands of buildings were destroyed. Tremors have been appearing for three days already. Belarusian tourists are trying to leave the country but the airports are full.
2547.txt:“Some Embassies have been evacuating EU citizens today,” Belarusian Lyubou Pranevich told Novy Chas. She was in Katmandu at the moment of the earthquake. “We were sending a German boy to Thailand for medical treatment. We were at the airport. Belgians refused to take us on board the plane that was evacuating people. Belarusians are not Europeans, an employee of their company said. I told her that we were from Europe. And she replied: ‘You are not from the European Union’. Then were asked her what we had to do. The woman responded: ‘Join the European Union.’”
2551.txt:Betina Zhoteva, Spokesperson for the Foreign Ministry, said that air traffic at the airport in Kathmandu had been restored and that several airlines were conducting additional flights to enable everybody who was willing to leave the country to do so.
2559.txt:SINGAPORE – Deutsche Post DHL (DPDHL) Group, the world´s leading logistics provider, has deployed their Disaster Response Team (DRT) inKathmandu, Nepal, following the massive 7.8-magnitude earthquake that has claimed thousands of lives to date in addition to those being severely injured. The international aid community is now gearing up to fly in urgently needed goods like technical equipment, water and food. DPDHL Group’s DRT will provide logistics support to help manage the incoming international aid and handle the goods at Tribhuvan Kathmandu International Airport for further distribution by local and international organizations to those in need.
2559.txt:Frank Appel, CEO of Deutsche Post DHL Group, said: “The massive scale of destruction from theNepal earthquake has hugely crippled infrastructure and damaged roads and local airports, posing a great logistical challenge towards relief efforts. It’s a race against time to rescue those still captured in the debris as well as those in urgent need for critical assistance and amenities like medical help, food and water. The sudden influx of relief goods atKathmandu airport challenges the local capacities to distribute these goods in a timely manner to reach beneficiaries. This is the specific logistics support that our DHL Disaster Response Team will provide at the airport. Our team comprises highly trained volunteers who provide logistical expertise to help coordinate the relief aid at the airport for further distribution to the victims in the speediest manner possible.”
2559.txt:Chris Weeks, DHL Director for Humanitarian Affairs, said: “In the aftermath of a disaster airports can become bottlenecks that delay the distribution of emergency relief supplies. In these situations, logistics expertise can make a huge difference in coordinating the incoming supplies, and so save lives by ensuring a swift and organized handling of all aid. However, there is a high level of competency and preparedness inNepal to deal with the aftermath as we had jointly conducted a ‘Get Airports Ready for Disaster’ (GARD) program with local Nepalese authorities and the United Nations Development Program in 2010.”
2559.txt:The GARD program was conducted in 2010 at five airports — TIA (Kathmandu), Nepalganj, Biratnagar, Simara and Pokhara.
2559.txt:GoHelp is the disaster management program of Deutsche Post DHL and comprises the programs “Get Airports Ready for Disaster” (GARD) and natural disaster response via the Disaster Response Teams (DRTs). In a partnership with the United Nations since 2005, Deutsche Post DHL Group provides the UN with access to its core competence in logistics, its global network and the know-how of its employees free of charge. To date, GARD was implemented jointly with the United Nations Development Program to more than 25 local airports in countries likeArmenia, Bangladesh, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Indonesia, Jordan, Lebanon,Nepal, Panama, Peru, the Philippines, Turkey and Sri Lanka. In cooperation with UNOCHA, DPDHL Group also established a global network of Disaster Response Teams to support airports in case of a natural disaster. The DRT network consists of over 400 trained DHL volunteers, who can be deployed within 72 hours.
2561.txt:Congested airports, impassible roads
2561.txt:The next round of distributions will depend on relief supplies being airlifted in from Dubai, but at the moment, flights are having difficulties landing at Tribhuvan International Airport due to congestion and continued aftershocks.
2563.txt:KATHMANDU: Nishchal Guruwacharya does not believe in god anymore. The 25-year-old from Chamati area of Naya Bazar in Kathmandu lost more than half of his extended family of 52 in a building collapse on Saturday. That day, his family had organized a "saptahik pooja" in the house with almost all relatives in attendance."An entire generation is gone. My grandfather, my mother, all her sisters, my brother, everyone is gone. There were 40 people in the house then, only nine have survived. We were conducting the pooja to make the gods happy, they instead gave us their wrath," says Guruwacharya.A few kilometres away, recuperating from bruises and a head injury at a camp in Durbar area, Maheshwar Raj Khwanju, 48, is thanking the gods. His family of five fell five floors after his building in Bhotaiti collapsed, killing everyone except his wife and children.His daughter Asmita, 10, fainted out of shock as she felt the first tremors, but has not sustained even a scratch on her body. Even his dog Tommy escaped with just a limping leg. "This is god's grace, the power of Pashupatinath," says Khwanju.The only thing common between the two stories is the lament for an "absent" government and gratitude for the rescue and relief provided by India. Between the almighty's wrath and an overwhelmed Nepal government, India as the first mover seems to have made a place in the hearts of the Nepalese . This, despite the fact that there is no country worth any international standing that has not sent its teams to Nepal."Men from NDRF (National Disaster Response Force) have been working here non-stop, without a wink of sleep, for the past three days. I know none of my family members will come out alive. But at least they have ensured they will get a respectable funeral," says Guruwacharya.Though Khwanju was rescued by local youth, relief material and medical help brought in by Indian armed forces has kept him going in the camp.Srikrishna Kharel, 30, a cloth merchant from Hanuman Dhoka area which has seen massive damage to Nepal's architectural heritage, is doing his bit by helping people in a camp set up in the area. Like most caught in a tragedy, he is angry with his government."These people will do nothing for us. The first day there was no water, no food, no medicines. We have been surviving by helping each other. Indians were the first to come. Even before China. We haven't seen anyone from the US," he says.Though the Nepal government is doing its best, having put almost 90% of its army in rescue operations, it is certainly not enough given the scale of the tragedy. India on Tuesday sent three more NDRF teams with the number of teams engaged in rescue work now going up to 16.Tonnes of food, water, blankets and tents were unloaded from Indian aircraft at Tribhuvan International Airport even as aid poured in from across the world.What has marked India apart from all other international teams is articulated by a survivor of a six-storey building near Shobha Bhagwati bridge trapping over 50 who are all feared dead, "Teams from China and Poland had come. But they stay here for a few hours looking to rescue the living and leave when they are convinced all are dead. Only Indian forces are pulling out the dead," says Amir Sakya.Beyond their personal losses, the Nepalese are most saddened by the massive destruction to their cultural heritage. "Who will come to Nepal now," is the common refrain in a country heavily dependent on tourism."Do you know each and every brick of the temples in Hanuman Dhoka area that is now rubble had the names of the kings who contributed to their construction inscribed on them. Do you think when all this is rebuilt, its originality can be restored. No way. Guthibhairav temple was our Taj Mahal. It's gone. We have lost everything we had to show the world," says taxi driver Bose Kesi.
2566.txt:Many countries offered Nepal emergency aid and humanitarian assistance soon after the quake. However, most of the supplies have not yet reached the country due to frequent closure of the airport in Kathmandu amid aftershocks.
2566.txt:There are reports of foreigners being robbed of their money and personal belongings near the Kathmandu International Airport, and there is concern that social security would worsen if nothing is done to help those in dire needs of a proper shelter, food and drinking water.
2568.txt:A crush at the main international airport, where relief material and rescue teams are flying in while thousands of residents are trying to leave, has slowed the flow of aid.
2573.txt:A Swedish search and rescue team has taken off from Örebro airport. Photo: Kicki Nilsson/TT
2573.txt:A Swedish relief team on its way to earthquake-hit Nepal faces delays after two planes carrying 43 first responders and rescue equipment failed to secure permission to land at Kathmandu airport, the Swedish Contingencies Agency told The Local on Tuesday.
2573.txt:Swedish aid workers took off from Örebro airport in central Sweden at 10.40am on Tuesday, set to stop in Amman, Jordan, and Karachi, Pakistan, en route to Nepal. They followed hot on the heels of a freight plane which flew out at 9.19pm on Monday evening and is currently waiting at the airport in Baku, Azerbaijan.
2573.txt:But both planes have yet to receive permission to land at the airport in Kathmandu, press spokesman Marcus Årskog at the Swedish Contingencies Agency (MSB) told The Local.
2573.txt:“There's limited opportunity to land. It's a very small airport and there's a worldwide stream of relief effort units on their way to Nepal, so there's a lot of traffic which puts pressure on the airport. We're waiting in the queue and are working with the contacts we've got to get prioritized,” he said.
2574.txt:Chaos has reigned at Kathmandu's small airport since the earthquake, with the onslaught of relief flights causing major backups on the tarmac.
2576.txt:Along a small river that runs by the city's international airport, funeral pyres burned as families bade farewell to their dead. Sangita Sedhai (32) had flown back from Canada and arrived to news that her family was safe. "The buildings we can rebuild," she said. "The people - no." Another Nepali who rushed home after the earthquake was Binod Shrespha, a 35-year-old clothes merchant who had been in China. Having been unable to contact his mother, he feared the worst. "I call and I call - no receive," he said. As the houses swayed in Bhaktapur on the outskirts of Kathmandu, everyone ran but some not fast enough, said Rajesh Lohala, a shopkeeper. "It was terrible, really terrible," he said. "I have never seen such a big quake.
2578.txt:Jamie McGoldrick, the U.N. resident coordinator for Nepal, told a news conference Tuesday that bringing in relief materials has been difficult because Kathmandu's international airport, which has just one runway and space for only a limited number of aircraft to park, is log jammed.
2581.txt:Interior Minister Milan Chovanec (ČSSD) said the date of the Czech team’s departure depends on the time the plane could land at the Kathmandu airport, which has been extremely busy now.
2581.txt:Nestrojil said the doctors and nurses are preparing medical material and undergoing necessary vaccination before leaving Brno for Prague tonight. The plane with the complete team might take off from a Prague airport early on Tuesday, he said.
2585.txt:At Kathmandu airport, flights arrived with emergency aid and helicopters brought in both foreign trekkers and local villagers from quake-struck areas. Helicopters chartered by trekking companies reached the Langtang area, about 40 miles north of Kathmandu and a popular area for trekking – a key contributor to the country’s economy.
2586.txt:New York (AFP) April 27, 2015 - The United States said Monday it is sending $10 million in relief to help the victims of the massive earthquake in Nepal, where the death toll surpassed 4,000, including at least four Americans. New York (AFP) April 27, 2015 - The United States said Monday it is sending $10 million in relief to help the victims of the massive earthquake in Nepal, where the death toll surpassed 4,000, including at least four Americans. The Pentagon also ordered about 24 US Army Green Beret commandos who were already in Nepal on training missions to join in rescue efforts, officials said. Some of the Green Beret special forces troops -- who were in Nepal for high-altitude training -- are helping to search for victims "along popular trekking routes" including the Mount Everest base camp route, spokesman Colonel Steven Warren told reporters. With fears rising of food and water shortages, US Secretary of State John Kerry and Pentagon chief Ashton Carter announced the latest details of the American aid effort, including a second military cargo flight to ferry rescue workers to Nepal. A C-17 Globemaster aircraft traveling from Dover Air Force Base in Delaware was carrying more than 50 search and rescue specialists from the Los Angeles County Fire Department, officials said. With that second flight, the United States would have "a nearly 130-person disaster response team" on the ground "to conduct assessments, coordinate the humanitarian response and provide search-and-rescue capabilities along with 45 tons of cargo," State Department spokesman Jeffrey Rathke said. A previous C-17 flight left on Sunday. Kerry offered his "deepest condolences" to the victims of the disaster in Nepal and across the region, adding "the images that everybody has seen are gut-wrenching, extraordinary devastation. The State Department confirmed that four Americans "in the Everest region" were among the dead. Speaking at a joint press conference with Kerry in New York, Japanese Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida said Tokyo was also sending some $8 million in aid to Nepal and had deployed 110 emergency workers. "Tragedies of this magnitude really underscore that in today's world, next door is really everywhere," Kerry said. Hundreds of thousands of Nepalis spent another night in the open Monday after a massive quake which killed more than 4,000, as officials warned the final toll could rise sharply once rescuers reach cut-off areas. With fears rising of food and water shortages, Nepalis were rushing to stores and petrol stations to stock up on essential supplies in the capital Kathmandu, left devastated by Saturday's 7.8-magnitude quake. Officials say more than 4,100 people are now known to have died, including 4,010 in Nepal -- making it the quake-prone Himalayan nation's deadliest disaster in more than 80 years. More than 90 people have been killed in neighbouring India and China while a further 7,500 people were injured in Nepal. But senior disaster management official Rameshwor Dangal said the toll in Nepal could jump once rescuers discovered the full extent of devastation in villages outside Kathmandu. "Rescue operations are underway, and in many places where buildings have collapsed there might be people trapped," Dangal, the home ministry's national disaster management chief, told AFP. "We are also in the process of getting information from villages, and these will add to the death toll." Families who work in Kathmandu were packing onto buses, some even sitting on the roofs, leaving the city, many for their home villages to determine the damage there. Mothers clutching children and men hauling bags were seen bargaining with drivers of the many buses clogging the roads out of the capital. The exodus came as international rescue teams with sniffer dogs raced to find survivors buried in rubble, and teams equipped with heavy cutting gear and relief supplies landed at the nation's only international airport. Elisabeth Byrs, a spokeswoman for the UN's World Food Programme, told AFP the agency would launch a "large, massive operation" with the first plane carrying rations set to arrive on Tuesday. Pledging $10 million in relief to help the victims, US Secretary of State John Kerry said he had been shocked by the "gut-wrenching" images of the death and destruction. Speaking at the same press conference, Japan's Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida said that Tokyo was sending some $8 million in aid to Nepal. Hunkered in tent camps
2588.txt:An El Al plane carrying 216 Israelis from Nepal landed at Ben Gurion Airport early Tuesday afternoon, as rescue workers pressed on with efforts to reach Israeli tourists stranded in remote areas, devastated by a massive earthquake that has killed at least 4,438 people.
2588.txt:A Magen David Adom plane landed Monday afternoon at Tel Aviv’s Sde Dov airport, carrying five babies born to Israeli couples through surrogate mothers. The children and parents were all reported to be in good health.
2588.txt:The exodus came as international rescue teams with sniffer dogs raced to find survivors buried in rubble, and teams equipped with heavy cutting gear and relief supplies landed at the nation’s only international airport.
2590.txt:The 260-strong team from IDF Home Front Command was delayed by several hours due to aftershocks having caused damage to the landing strips at Kathmandu Airport. The team has brought with it 95 tons of medical and humanitarian supplies and is setting up a field hospital in Kathmandu staffed by 122 doctors, nurses and paramedics. They will operate an emergency room, operating theatres, X-ray facilities and a room for expectant mothers. Meanwhile, three 20-strong IDF rescue teams plus special dog handlers will help the search for survivors.
2591.txt:An FCO spokesperson said: “Foreign and Commonwealth Office staff are continuing to work round the clock with the local authorities and tour operators, as well as visiting hospitals, hotels, the airport and tourist locations to identify and assist British nationals in Nepal. We have helped over 250 British people and stand ready to assist more and their families as necessary.
2594.txt:"We spent the night at airport, feeling the aftershocks throughout the night ... awaiting the possibility of a flight home like many others."
2597.txt:At Kathmandu airport, flights arrived with emergency aid and helicopters brought in both foreign trekkers and local villagers from quake-struck areas. Helicopters chartered by trekking companies reached the Langtang area, about 60 kilometers (40 miles) north of Kathmandu, a popular area for trekking — a key contributor to the country’s economy.
2597.txt:At the Kathmandu airport, foreign planes from India, the U.S., China, Malaysia, Pakistan, Israel that brought aid and rescue personnel lined up on the crowded tarmac.
2597.txt:Coming out of the airport with dry blood on his face and legs, Min Bahadur Raut said he got a ride on a helicopter from a neighbor who had chartered a flight for his mother. He has not been able to move his left arm.
2598.txt:That would leave them in a worse situation than they currently have in the U.S. embassy in Kathmandu, where his group and many others have gathered while they await their scheduled flight on May 17, he said. In New Delhi, however, they'd likely have to camp out at the airport.
2599.txt:Congested airports, impassible roads
2599.txt:The next round of distributions will depend on relief supplies being airlifted in from Dubai, but at the moment, flights are having difficulties landing at Tribhuvan International Airport due to congestion and continued aftershocks.
2600.txt:Others have not been able to reach the Himalayan nation as quickly as they had hoped, because its one international airport has been functioning intermittently amid aftershocks.
2610.txt:23:41 Buses from UP release congestion at Kathmandu airport: Sharat Pradhan reports from Lucknow: Buses sent by the Uttar Pradesh government to facilitate evacuation of Indian survivors, stranded in Nepal on account of Saturday's devastating earthquake ,have released the congestion at Kathmandu airport.
2610.txt:He said, "The convoy of buses was flagged off from the Indian embassy at Kathmandu on Tuesday evening and should be in Gorakhpur by Wednesday noon." A number of people, hanging around the Tribhuvan International airport at Kathmandu, opted to return to India by buses, thereby bringing down the acute congestion at the airport. Buses sent by the Uttar Pradesh government to facilitate evacuation of Indian survivors, stranded in Nepal on account of Saturday's devastating earthquake ,have released the congestion at Kathmandu airport.
2610.txt:We are thankful to the government of India that it was kind enough to extend a 'blank cheque' after the shattering earthquake. It has done tremendous work to provide help," he told reporters here. India took the initiative in relief operations, which other countries followed. Ambassador-designate of Nepal Deep Kumar Upadhyay also expressed concerns on "congestion on Kathmandu airport" that was hampering taking aid to the victims. "
2610.txt:13:43 My family is safe. But my country is destroyed: Manisha Koirala : Nepal-born Bollywood actress Manisha Koirala tells Rediff.com that she is too shattered to say anything about what has happened in Nepal. "What can one say after a devastation such as this? I want to go to Nepal immediately. But what can I do? I'm stuck in Mumbai as the airport in Kathmandu is closed. I've made other travel arrangements and will be flying to Nepal soon. Luckily my family is safe. But my country is destroyed. "
2610.txt:Nepal-born Bollywood actresstellsthat she is too shattered to say anything about what has happened in Nepal. "What can one say after a devastation such as this? I want to go to Nepal immediately. But what can I do? I'm stuck in Mumbai as the airport in Kathmandu is closed. I've made other travel arrangements and will be flying to Nepal soon. Luckily my family is safe. But my country is destroyed. "
2610.txt:"A total of 194 people from Maharashtra, who were stranded at Kathmandu Airport, were brought back to Delhi today. Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis and Revenue Minister Eknath Khadse are personally monitoring the rescue operation," an official from the chief minister's office said.
2618.txt:http://us.india.com/news/india/indians-arrive-at-delhi-airport-from-quake-hit-nepal-366886/
2618.txt:Indians arrive at Delhi airport from quake-hit Nepal
2618.txt:New Delhi, Apr 28: A fresh batch of Indians, rescued from quake-ravaged Nepal, arrived in New Delhi on Tuesday wee hours. “We are waiting here at the airport for the rest of our family to return as only the women have arrived in the first flight. All the men are in the second flight. We have not been able to contact them yet. I am happy that we have returned,” said an Indian national, Payal Agarwal. (READ- Nepal Earthquake 2015: Toll rises to 4,310)
2623.txt:Tourist Judy Darragh was at an airport when the quake struck - and describes the scenes afterward as "chaos".
262.txt:The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country’s only international airport which was briefly closed.
263.txt:The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country’s only international airport which was briefly closed.
265.txt:The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country’s only international airport which was briefly closed. Kari Cuelenaere, an official at the Dutch embassy, said the impact had swept the water out of a swimming pool at a Kathmandu hotel where Dutch national day was being celebrated.
2663.txt:After being stranded at the airport for a few hours, they were able to catch a flight and return home to Paris.
2675.txt:T3 terminal building of Beijing Capital International Airport saw over 30 Chinese tourists coming back from the earthquake stricken areas in Nepal at 2:28 a.m. on April 27, 2015. People witnessed many touching moments.
2675.txt:These people belonged to a group of Haitai Travel Agency and were trapped in the earthquake stricken areas in Nepal. When they arrived at the airport in Nepal, many volunteers of Air China were waiting for them holding notice boards in hands. And other helpless foreign tourists admiringly looked at them.
2689.txt:Haskins told News24 from OR Tambo International Airport that four search and rescue specialists from the police would be flying out with the disaster response organisation Gift of the Givers later on Tuesday.
2707.txt:(MENAFN - Khaleej Times) Hundreds of Nepalis, angered and frustrated by the government's slow response, were digging through rubble themselves on Tuesday to find remains of their loved ones after a devastating earthquake three days ago killed more than 4,000 people.International aid has finally begun arriving in the Himalayan nation of 28 million people but disbursement is slow. A Home Ministry official in the capital, Kathmandu, said the death toll from Saturday's 7.9 magnitude quake stood at 4,010, with 7,598 injured.Nepal's most deadly quake in 81 years also triggered a huge avalanche on Mount Everest that killed at least 17 climbers and guides, including four foreigners, the worst single disaster on the world's highest peak.A series of aftershocks, severe damage from the quake, creaking infrastructure and a lack of funds have slowed rescue efforts in the impoverished, mountainous country sandwiched between India and China."Waiting for help is more torturous than doing this ourselves," said Pradip Subba, searching for the bodies of his brother and sister-in-law in the debris of Kathmandu's historic Dharahara tower, a 19th century minaret that collapsed on Saturday as weekend sightseers clambered up its spiral stairs."Our hands are the only machine right now," said the 27-year-old, part of a group of locals pulling out blocks of concrete with cloth masks over their faces to ward off the stench of rotting bodies. "There is just no one from the government or the army to help us."Scores of people were killed in the collapse of the tower.The head of neighbouring India's National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), one of the first foreign organisations to arrive in Nepal to help in the search and rescue effort, said finding survivors and the bodies of the dead would take time.NDRF Director General O.P. Singh said heavy equipment could not fit through many of the narrow streets of Kathmandu."You have to remove all this rubble, so that will take a lot of time ... I think it's going to take weeks," he told Indian television channel NDTV late on Monday.Many people across Nepal slept in the open for a third night, their homes either flattened or threatened by tremors that spread more fear among a traumatised population.In Kathmandu, as elsewhere, thousands are sleeping on pavements, roads and in parks, many under makeshift tents.Hospitals are full to overflowing, while water, food and power are scarce, raising fears of waterborne diseases.There were some signs of normality on Tuesday, however, with fruit vendors setting up stalls on major roads and public buses back in operation.But with aid slow to reach many of the most vulnerable, some Nepalis were critical of the government."The government has not done anything for us," said Anil Giri, who was with about 20 volunteers looking for two of his friends presumed buried under rubble. "We are clearing the debris ourselves with our bare hands."OVERWHELMED, DESPERATEOfficials acknowledged they were overwhelmed by the scale of the disaster."The big challenge is relief," said Chief Secretary Leela Mani Paudel, Nepal's top bureaucrat."We urge foreign countries to give us special relief materials and medical teams. We are really desperate for more foreign expertise to pull through this crisis."At the Dharahara tower, Nepal's President Ram Baran Yadav told the local rescue team that he would send help.The situation is worse in remote rural areas. Highways have been blocked by landslides, and many villages and communities are without water and electricity, villagers surviving on salvaged food and with no outside help.While aid has begun arriving in the capital, including food, medical supplies, tents and dogs trained for rescue efforts, the authorities are struggling to deliver relief further afield.A crush at the main international airport, where relief material and rescue teams are flying in while thousands of residents are trying to leave, has slowed the flow of aid.India and China were among the first contributors to an international effort to support Nepal's stretched resources.On Monday, the United States announced an additional $9 million in aid for Nepal, bringing total U.S. disaster funding to $10 million.U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter said two C-17 U.S. Air Force transport planes carrying search-and-rescue personnel and supplies were headed to Nepal. Australia is also sending a C-17 to deliver disaster relief supplies, Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said, and to start ferrying out some of the more than 1,150 Australians who were in Nepal when the quake struck.High in the Himalayas, many sherpa mountain guides had descended to their homes and villages to see if loved ones were safe.Foreign mountaineers, meanwhile, were divided over whether to continue their pursuit of scaling the surrounding peaks if their local guides returned to lead them."For me personally it's probably too early to say how I feel about that," said Canadian Nick Cienski, who is attempting a record ascent of six 8,000-metre peaks this calendar year."I wouldn't want to continue if it made anybody uncomfortable to continue, sherpas included in that."As it happened10.00 a.m. (0415 GMT)Army troops are loading blue tarpaulin sheets, medical kits and dehydrated food, water bottles, sacks of rice and blankets at a flat area that is being used as a helipad in Gorkha town.Gorkha district was the epicenter of Saturday's magnitude 7.8 earthquake that has killed more than 4,300 people.With the weather clearing it seems that for now helicopters will be able to pick up the supplies and relay to smaller villages.The weather has been erratic over the last two days - there has been some rain and cloud cover making it difficult for helicopters to land in some areas close to the epicenter.9.45 a.m. (0400 GMT)A team of 37 New Zealand urban search-and-rescue experts due to leave Monday night for Kathmandu has been told at the 11th hour not to come.New Zealand Foreign Minister Murray McCully said in a statement that Nepal's government had informed him they had enough expertise in the country and the team was no longer required.New Zealand has contributed 1 million New Zealand dollars ($761,000) to the relief effort following Saturday's earthquake that killed more than 4,300 people.9.30 a.m. (0345 GMT)Army troops are loading bags of rice and cornmeal into a storage room at the district headquarters in Gorkha, the epicenter of Saturday's massive earthquake.District official Surya Mohan Adhikari says the supplies will be sent out later in the day to villages that need them most.He said that in the rural areas 90 percent of the people have been affected "by this calamity. They have lost their homes and livestock. They have no way of getting food."He says it is very difficult to reach them. They are cut off by landslides on the mountain roads, and the wind and rain is making it difficult for helicopters to land.Adhikari said they have reports of some 300 casualties, but that number is rising. Nationwide, more than 4,300 people have been killed in the magnitude 7.8 quake.9.00 a.m. (0315 GMT)A Nepal police official says at least 4,352 bodies have so far been recovered after last week's massive earthquake that struck just outside of capital Kathmandu.Deputy Inspector General of Police Komal Singh Bam says the toll includes 1,176 bodies recovered in Sindhupalchuk district, just northeast of the capital.He says 8,063 people have been injured in the magnitude 7.8 quake.Another 18 people were also killed in a quake-triggered avalanche that swept the Everest base camp. In neighboring India 61 people were killed and China's official Xinhua News Agency reported 25 dead in Tibet.8.45 a.m. (0300 GMT)A local seismologist says major aftershocks are now unlikely to occur as the 72-hour mark after Saturday's devastating earthquake approaches.Lok Bijaya Adhikari, chief of Nepal's National Seismological Center, says the number and strength of aftershocks have been receding. There have been more than 100 aftershocks since Saturday's magnitude 7.8 temblor that left more than 4,300 people confirmed dead so far. The largest of these was magnitude 6.7 on Sunday.The ground shook Tuesday morning at 5 a.m. but measured only magnitude 4.5.Smaller aftershocks are expected to continue for a month and Kathmandu residents could continue to feel tremors because the epicenter is close to the city.8.15 a.m. (0230 GMT)Health workers fear a major health crisis among the survivors of Saturday's massive earthquake who are living in the open or in crowded tents with no access to sanitation or clean water.Baburam Marasini, director of Nepal's Epidemiology and Disease Control Division, says their main concern is making sure people get clean water.He says "we fear diseases." He says the department is asking people to take precautions such as eating with a clean spoon and not with their hands as most people here normally do.He says people are also being asked to drink clean water. Attempts are also being made to reach rural areas quickly where a clear picture of the death toll - now more than 4,300 - is still not available.8.15 a.m. (0230 GMT)A government official says business owners are being asked to open their shops amid anxiety among locals about dwindling food and medical supplies in the wake of Saturday's earthquake that has left more than 4,300 people dead.Naindra Prasad Upadhaya, an official at the Commerce and Supplies Ministry says the government has made arrangements to pick up food and supplies directly from factories and distribute them free in areas where necessary.Water has been the big issue. There will be more tankers bringing water to the areas where people are camped out in Kathmandu and surrounding areas, he says. Food will also be sent to the rural areas on helicopters, he says.Police are on the lookout for businesses that are overcharging to take advantage of demand and scarcity, and such people will be arrested and punished, he said.
2709.txt:PLANS to evacuate Singaporeans from quake-hit Nepal were delayed when three Republic of Singapore Air Force C-130 planes could not land at Kathmandu airport yesterday because of congestion.
2709.txt:Defence Minister Ng Eng Hen said in a Facebook post yesterday that the diversions were due to congestion at Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport.
2709.txt:"Ground commanders tell me conditions at Kathmandu can be challenging. The airport is about 1,300m above sea level and weather conditions can change rapidly.
270.txt:The city's international airport was briefly closed as a precaution, with flights diverted to neighboring India. A beloved local landmark, the Dharahara - or Bhimsen Tower - collapsed with dozens inside. First built in 1832, it was toppled in Kathmandu's major 1934 earthquake and subsequently restored.
2710.txt:As in Haiti, transportation in Nepal, even before the earthquake, was basic. But unlike Haiti, Nepal is landlocked. This makes large-scale shipment of aid impossible. And the state of the one international airport at Kathmandu is unclear. Even if large transport aircraft such as those now en route from Canada are able to land, there’s no reason to believe the unspooling of aid to where it is needed will proceed any more quickly than it did in Haiti, where it took days, weeks and months.
2711.txt:Even at the airport in Kathmandu, there is no drinking water or food or other provisions available, so one can imagine what might be happening in other parts of the country.
2712.txt:Sunday early afternoon I made the decision to try travel to Kathmandu with two other mission workers based in Penang where I live. One, Gill Nash, has lived in Nepal for nine years and is fluent in the language. We got three of the last four seats available on Thai Air for April 28th. We have tickets, but it still remains to be seen if we can actually land in Kathmandu today. Word is yesterday’s Thai flight was diverted to Calcutta due to weather and priority given to military and official aid flights. Kathmandu’s airport is very small, one runway and located in a valley.
271.txt:The earthquake also shook several cities across northern India, and was felt as far away as Lahore in Pakistan, Lhasa in Tibet, and in Dhaka, Bangladesh. Following the quake, Kathmandu's international airport was shut down.
2725.txt:Britain in sending additional 30 medics to treat the injured and heavy lifting equipment to move aid supplies off aircraft and ease congestion at Kathmandu airport.
2725.txt:The group says aid workers are hindered by a congested airport in capital Kathmandu, impassable and destroyed roads which have left several remote villages still largely cut off.
2729.txt:Dr Watkins said the good news was that the international airport opened on Sunday so some supplies were arriving from India.
2731.txt:Yvonne Renshaw, 63, begged officials at Kathmandu airport to put her on a plane to Perth.
2731.txt:People are anxiously waiting at Kathmandu airport to catch a flight out of the quake-ravaged country. Photo: Yvonne Renshaw Tweet Facebook of ╳ exit
2731.txt:Mrs Roberts said Kathmandu airport was packed with thousands of people trying to leave Nepal.
2731.txt:"It was chaos at the airport," she said.
2731.txt:The Mundaring local said after waiting 30 hours at Kathmandu airport, she fought her way into the departure lounge and begged to be put on a flight.
2731.txt:"The timing and frequency of the flights will be subject to capacity constraints at Kathmandu airport and approval by the Nepalese Government, " it read.
2732.txt:http://www.sbs.com.au/news/storystream/aid-teams-cant-reach-congested-nepal-airport
2734.txt:While some Australians have returned home on commercial flights, others are waiting for the Department of Foreign Affairs to release details of the military flights when arrangements at Kathmandu airport have been made.
2736.txt:At Kathmandu airport, flights arrived with emergency aid and helicopters brought in foreign trekkers and Nepalese villagers from quake-struck areas. The UN is releasing $15 million from its central emergency response fund for quake victims.
2737.txt:While some Australians have returned home on commercial flights, others are waiting for the Department of Foreign Affairs to release details of the military flights when arrangements at Kathmandu airport have been made.
2741.txt:WHILE some Australians have returned home on commercial flights, others are waiting for the Department of Foreign Affairs to release details of the military flights when arrangements at Kathmandu airport have been made.
2742.txt:Link People are anxiously waiting at Kathmandu airport to catch a flight out of the quake-ravaged country. Photo: Yvonne Renshaw
2742.txt:Link Yvonne Renshaw, 63, begged officials at Kathmandu airport to put her on a plane to Perth.
2742.txt:Mrs Roberts said Kathmandu airport was packed with thousands of people trying to leave Nepal.
2742.txt:"It was chaos at the airport," she said.
2742.txt:The Mundaring local said after waiting 30 hours at Kathmandu airport, she fought her way into the departure lounge and begged to be put on a flight.
2742.txt:"The timing and frequency of the flights will be subject to capacity constraints at Kathmandu airport and approval by the Nepalese Government, " it read.
2749.txt:“They have made two attempts to land at the airport in Kathmandu and on both occasions they have been turned away, but we are determined we are going to get them there.”
2750.txt:Unni Krishnan spent hours on the tarmac in Delhi Sunday afternoon before he learned his flight would be cancelled because of a massive aftershock in Kathmandu. While the 49-year-old aid worker managed to catch a different flight to the earthquake-shattered capital of Nepal the following morning, several of his colleagues remain stranded at airports, waiting for a seat on a flight they hoped would be able to land.
2750.txt:That backlog at the airport is one of many challenges for aid workers who are struggling to reach those most in need of help after a devastating earthquake shook the South Asian country on Saturday, killing more than 4,000 people. People in Nepal described chaotic scenes on Monday as thousands fled the capital and officials struggled to move supplies from the country's main airport to those left homeless by the earthquake.
2752.txt:That would leave them in a worse situation than they currently have in the U.S. embassy in Kathmandu, where his group and many others have gathered while they await their scheduled flight on May 17, he said. In New Delhi, however, they'd likely have to camp out at the airport.
2753.txt:A military aircraft carrying a Disaster Assistance Response Team and other personnel was expected to arrive in Nepal on Wednesday, said Defence Minister Jason Kenney. But it would depend on the condition of the airport.
2754.txt:The flight is expected at Bandaranaike International Airport (BIA) around 2.00 pm, Sri Lanka Air Force Media Spokesperson said.
2755.txt:Officers and soldiers prepare to board an IL-76 aircraft at an airport before departing for earthquake-stricken Nepal in Kunming, capital of southwest China's Yunnan Province, April 27, 2015. An 8.1-magnitude quake shook Nepal at 2:11 p.m. (Beijing Time), killing more than 2,000 people and injuring another 5,460 in Nepal. The quake also affected the southwestern part of China's Tibet. Some 24,800 people have been relocated in Xigaze City. (Xinhua/Zhang Hengping)
2755.txt:Soldiers load relief materials at Lukou International Airport in Nanjing, capital of east China's Jiangsu Province, April 27, 2015. China has offered to provide quake-jolted Nepal with 20 million yuan (about 3.4 million U.S. dollars) worth of emergency aid, and the materials have been transported in batches to the country by air since Monday. Full story
2756.txt:Two IL-76 planes were dispatched to an airport in Chengdu, capital of southwest China's Sichuan Province, and one IL-76 plane was placed at an airport in Kunming, capital of nearby Yunnan Province, to transport PLA rescuers and logistics to Nepal.
2756.txt:The Air Force has thoroughly planned its choice of airports and air routes as well as mission details, Shen said.
2758.txt:Two IL-76 planes were dispatched to an airport in Chengdu, capital of southwest China's Sichuan Province, and one IL-76 plane was placed at an airport in Kunming, capital of nearby Yunnan Province, to transport PLA rescuers and logistics to Nepal.
2758.txt:Officers and soldiers prepare to board an IL-76 aircraft at an airport before departing for earthquake-stricken Nepal in Kunming, capital of southwest China's Yunnan Province, April 27, 2015. An 8.1-magnitude quake shook Nepal at 2:11 p.m. (Beijing Time), killing more than 2,000 people and injuring another 5,460 in Nepal. The quake also affected the southwestern part of China's Tibet. Some 24,800 people have been relocated in Xigaze City. (Xinhua/Zhang Hengping)
2758.txt:The Air Force has thoroughly planned its choice of airports and air routes as well as mission details, Shen said.
2758.txt:Officers and soldiers prepare to board an IL-76 aircraft at an airport before departing for earthquake-stricken Nepal in Kunming, capital of southwest China's Yunnan Province, April 27, 2015. An 8.1-magnitude quake shook Nepal at 2:11 p.m. (Beijing Time), killing more than 2,000 people and injuring another 5,460 in Nepal. The quake also affected the southwestern part of China's Tibet. Some 24,800 people have been relocated in Xigaze City. (Xinhua/Zhao Xiaorong)
2758.txt:Officers and soldiers load rescue materials on an IL-76 aircraft at an airport before departing for earthquake-stricken Nepal in Kunming, capital of southwest China's Yunnan Province, April 27, 2015. An 8.1-magnitude quake shook Nepal at 2:11 p.m. (Beijing Time), killing more than 2,000 people and injuring another 5,460 in Nepal. The quake also affected the southwestern part of China's Tibet. Some 24,800 people have been relocated in Xigaze City. (Xinhua/Zhang Hengping)
2760.txt:Chinese Ambassador to Nepal Wu Chuntai (C) poses for photos with members of a Chinese medical team at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, capitol of Nepal, April 27, 2015. A 58-strong Chinese Government Medical team arrived in Nepal Monday morning to carry out humanitarian mission after the country was struck by a powerful earthquake at midday Saturday. (Xinhua/Zhou Shengping)
2762.txt:The Indian Air Force also evacuated 1,935 Indian nationals through 12 aircraft sorties. And the Indian Army’s Rapid Action Medical Team (RATM) plans to set up a first aid centre in Lagankhel, eight kilometres from Kathmandu airport.
2765.txt:Officers and soldiers prepare to board an IL-76 aircraft at an airport before departing for earthquake-stricken Nepal in Kunming, capital of southwest China's Yunnan Province, April 27, 2015. An 8.1-magnitude quake shook Nepal at 2:11 p.m. (Beijing Time), killing more than 2,000 people and injuring another 5,460 in Nepal. The quake also affected the southwestern part of China's Tibet. Some 24,800 people have been relocated in Xigaze City. (Xinhua/Zhang Hengping)
2766.txt:Last Sunday, the Finnish Interior Ministry decided to dispatch a 29-member rescue team to the quake-hit country, but later canceled the mission as the team was unable to get permission to land at Nepal's single international airport.
2771.txt:A Spanish Air Force Airbus 310 will make two flights between Kathmandu and New Delhi on Monday to evacuate citizens already standing by at Kathmandu airport.
2782.txt:Guwahati: Thirty-six people who were stuck in quake-ravaged Kathmandu reached the city on Monday.State home secretary L S Changsan said, so far, seven people from Assam have been declared dead in Nepal and their bodies will be flown to Delhi on Monday night.Chief executive officer of Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) P K Tiwari said 40 people from the state have been flown to Delhi from Kathmandu over the last few days. Of them, 30 were flown to Guwahati on Monday with the help of government agencies, while six arrived here on their own.As the survivors emerged from the Lokpriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport, their faces bore signs of relief and exhaustion. "It's my second birth. I thank the Almighty for saving my life. I have seen disaster in front of me," said a survivor from the city.Changsan said, "We had information about 120 people from Assam being stuck in Kathmandu. Forty of them have been brought back to Delhi. Also, nine people are undergoing treatment in various hospitals in Kathmandu. We are in touch with the ministry of external affairs and ministry of home affairs so that more people can be rescued."She added that ADGP Umesh Kumar has left for Kathmandu to liaise with the Indian embassy and Nepal officials and trace the missing.Tiwari said the option of bringing back stranded people by road is also being explored. "We have asked the authorities in Kokrajhar to make arrangements to bring back survivors by road," he said.A medical team, comprising surgical, orthopedic and trauma management specialists, along with Army officers from the Tezpur-based Gajraj Corps, left for Kathmandu on Sunday. The medical team was airlifted by a C-17 aircraft that arrived from the Palam airbase.Regarding the city's disaster mitigation plans, Tiwari said officials of the PWD will be trained on testing the fitness of concrete buildings."We are in the process of doing GIS mapping of critical utility services like hospitals so that these services become accessible in case of a disaster. At the same time, we are mapping available open space in the city so that people can take shelter there in such situations," Tiwari said. Changsan said all district administrations have been asked to be ready with contingency plans at the police station-level to deal with such a situation.
2783.txt:“They have water to drink and a place to stay. They are safe and have suffered no injuries,” he said. There is a helipad next to the hotel. The nearest airport to Thame is at Lukla, which is about 140 km away from Kathmandu.
2789.txt:The director of Caritas Nepal, Fr Pius Perumana, told the US-based Catholic News Service on Tuesday that the logistical problems were “enormous” and that several Catholic aid groups had been delayed collecting supplies at Kathmandu airport because of congestion.
2789.txt:At one point the airport was closed due to heavy rain; meanwhile dozens of international flights carrying much-needed supplies are being held in the air because the airport can only accommodate 12 international flights at a time.
2791.txt:The capital's airport was so congested with military planes attempting to land that a flight carrying 70 members of Japan's national search-and-rescue team circled futilely and eventually had to be rerouted to Kolkata for refueling.
2791.txt:Nepali passengers on the plane said they had received text messages from those at Kathmandu airport informing them of a chaotic situation there, with Indian nationals overwhelming the facility, hoping to get on evacuation flights.
2795.txt:“The commercial flights are taking place, the airport is open. We have put in special commercial flights as well...We are going to start evacuation by bus to many parts of India. So there is no need to panic for Indians who want to leave,” Rae told a TV channel.
2795.txt:Air services to quake-devastated Nepalese capital Kathmandu from India returned to normal yesterday but shortage of parking bays at the airport was preventing the carriers to operate more flights to evacuate stranded people.
2806.txt:An El Al plane carrying 216 Israelis from Nepal landed at Ben Gurion Airport early Tuesday afternoon. Among the passengers were 15 surrogate-born children caught up in the quake.
2809.txt:Two hundred and twenty-nine Israelis landed at Ben Gurion Airport early Tuesday afternoon, escaping the ongoing devastation in Kathmandu and the surrounding area. Among them were 15 surrogate-born children to Israeli parents.
2811.txt:JERUSALEM, April 28 (Xinhua) -- An Israeli airplane carrying 229 Israelis evacuated from Nepal arrived at the Tel Aviv Ben Gurion Airport Tuesday, the airport spokesperson said.
2815.txt:Defence Minister Datuk Seri Hishammuddin Hussein said the aircraft landed at Tribhuvan International Airport in Nepal today.
2816.txt:MUADZAM SHAH: A Malaysian Armed Forces' (ATM) C130 Hercules aircraft carrying 64 rescuers and medical teams arrived at the Forward Operations Base, Tribhuvan International Airport, Kathmandu in Nepal, this morning.
2816.txt:Defence Minister Datuk Seri Hishammuddin Tun Hussein said the plane departed from the Subang Air Base at 6am Monday and arrived at the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport, India, at 12.15pm on Monday, before proceeding to Kathmandu.
281.txt:The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country's only international airport which was briefly closed.
2820.txt:Now is definitely not the time for pet projects, grassroots volunteers or shipments of supplies that will clog the transportation network and could interfere with the economic recovery. Nepal’s airport is already a bottleneck. It is more helpful for Canadians who want to muster community support to gather money from friends and neighbours than to gather sleeping bags or shoes.
2825.txt:An El Al plane carrying 216 Israelis from Nepal landed at Ben Gurion Airport Tuesday afternoon, as rescue workers pressed on with efforts to reach Israeli tourists stranded in remote areas, devastated by a massive earthquake that has killed at least 5,000 people.
2829.txt:18/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese girl injured in the earthquake holds the hand of her mother inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
2829.txt:19/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese victims of the earthquake lie inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
2829.txt:24/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded man on a makeshift stretcher to a waiting Indian air force helicopter as they evacuate victims of the earthquake from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
2829.txt:25/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person carries a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance after the child and mother were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu
2829.txt:26/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person walks carrying a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance as the mother follows after they were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu
2831.txt:At Kathmandu airport, flights arrived with emergency aid and helicopters brought in both foreign trekkers and local villagers from quake-struck areas. Helicopters chartered by trekking companies reached the Langtang area, about 60 kilometers (40 miles) north of Kathmandu, a popular area for trekking — a key contributor to the country's economy.
2831.txt:At the Kathmandu airport, foreign planes from India, the U.S., China, Malaysia, Pakistan, Israel that brought aid and rescue personnel lined up on the crowded tarmac.
2831.txt:Coming out of the airport with dry blood on his face and legs, Min Bahadur Raut said he got a ride on a helicopter from a neighbor who had chartered a flight for his mother. He was not able to move his left arm.
2832.txt:The group will be leaving tonight for Kathmandu. And CTV Ottawa had word early this morning from Leanne Cusack that most of the members of her charity group managed to find their own flight out. They were at the airport early this morning, on a flight headed for home via Qatar and Frankfurt.
2835.txt:The UN has estimated that 8 million people have been affected - more than a quarter of the country's population. Foreign aid is slowly trickling in but is being hampered by congestion at Kathmandu's sole airport.
2836.txt:Gorkha has become a staging area for those sending rescuers and supplies to remote mountain areas, some reachable only by air after roads were blocked by landslides. At the Katmandu airport, helicopters arrived with both foreign trekkers and local villagers plucked from quake-struck areas.
283.txt:The death toll was likely to continue to rise — perhaps dramatically — as more information comes in from remote and isolated regions affected by the magnitude 7.8 quake. The Associated Press says that the earthquake "shook several cities across northern India, and was felt as far away as Lahore in Pakistan, Lhasa in Tibet, and in Dhaka, Bangladesh." Kathmandu's international airport was shut down following the temblor, the news agency says.
284.txt:http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/international/world-news/two-dead-many-trapped-kathmandu-airport-closed/articleshow/47048580.cms
284.txt:Two dead, many trapped, Kathmandu airport closed
284.txt:KATHMANDU: According to information available, there was widespread devastation in Hanmandhoka area in the old area of Kathmandu.Several casualties were feared as buildings collapsed. At least two people were killed. A 15-year-old girl was killed when the wall of her home collapsed in a village near the border with Nepal. Another girl was killed by a falling statue in a town outside Kathmandu, according to Nepal 's state radio.Authorities said they were still trying to assess the situation.There was rubble where the buildings once stood. In at least one case, there was a long and wide crack on a metalled road.Initial reports indicated that telephone connectivity was snapped in and around Lamjung, which was the epicentre of the quake.There were reports of people with broken limbs being taken to hospital. Kathmandu airport is closed. Flights are reportedly being diverted to India.
2856.txt:Sniffer dog handler Birgit Ostendorf of Germany’s NGO organisation International Search and Rescue (ISAR- Germany) prepares her dog ‘Cooper’ to board their flight to Nepal from Frankfurt airport, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic
2856.txt:Indians fight during a queue for an aircraft back to their country outside Nepal’s Tribhuvan International Airport a day after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic
2856.txt:Tourists gather inside Nepal’s Tribhuvan International Airport a day after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic
2856.txt:Workers of the German Red Cross (DRK) prepare a load of humanitarian aid for victims of the earthquake in Nepal, in front of an aircraft at Schoenefeld airport outside Berlin April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic
2856.txt:Victims of Saturday’s earthquake rest inside an Indian Air Force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic
2856.txt:People wait outside the departure terminal at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015, following the April 25 earthquake. — Reuters pic
2856.txt:Victims of Saturday’s earthquake rest inside an Indian Air Force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic
2859.txt:Some aid is beginning to trickle in, but it is not coming from the government. Ganesh Koju and three friends had come from Kathmandu with a car full of food for friends and family stranded up in the hills. “If the government was doing its job, we wouldn’t have to be here,” said Koju. “All the relief is still at the airport. The government haven’t done anything.”
2866.txt:The UN has estimated that eight million people have been affected - more than a quarter of the population. Foreign aid is arriving but being hampered by congestion at Kathmandu's sole airport.
2866.txt:But there is a logjam at Kathmandu airport, with individuals trying to fly out of the country while flights of aid and rescue teams wait to land.
2866.txt:On Monday, four Indian air force planes had to return to Delhi international airport after encountering "congestion" at Kathmandu, tweeted a spokesman for India's defence ministry.
2884.txt:But Nepal had in March inaugurated a humanitarian staging area at Tribhuvan International Airport near Kathmandu, which is now playing its intended role as a main logistics hub for airlifted and overland humanitarian assistance entering the Kathmandu Valley.
2884.txt:“Having only one international airport is another challenge, so we are also looking at options of implementing contingency plans in regional airports in the future,” Dangal said. In March Kathmandu’s airport was closed for several days after an airliner skidded off the single runway and prevented other planes from taking off or landing.
288.txt:A C-17 Globemaster of the Indian Air Force (IAF) landed at the Palam airport here around midnight, bringing back 102 Indians from Kathmandu where they were stranded due to the devastating earthquake in the country just before noon.
2897.txt:That would leave them in a worse situation than they currently have in the U.S. embassy in Kathmandu, where his group and many others have gathered while they await their scheduled flight on May 17, he said. In New Delhi, however, they’d likely have to camp out at the airport.
2897.txt:Defence Minister Jason Kenney said a military aircraft loaded with personnel and supplies was expected to arrive in Nepal on Wednesday, but added that depends on the condition of the damaged airport.
2901.txt:At Kathmandu airport, flights arrived with emergency aid and helicopters brought in foreign trekkers and Nepalese villagers from quake-struck areas. The UN is releasing $15 million from its central emergency response fund for quake victims.
2903.txt:After three days in Lukla, the two men were able to get a flight back to the capital of Kathmandu where they are currently awaiting a flight out of the country. But with countries large and small sending medical and rescue teams and basic supplies in, the small Kathmandu airport is reported to be congested and chaotic, with some flights forced to turn back early in the day, according to a Monday report by the Associated Press.
2904.txt:Speaking from the departure lounge at Kathmandu Airport, Scott said she was glad to finally have a boarding pass in her hand and be heading home.
2920.txt:The two now are trying to join the relief effort, which includes doctors, volunteers and equipment pouring into Nepal following the reopening of Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu. Some aid vehicles were also able to travel overland from India to the stricken Nepalese city of Pokhara, according to reports.
2922.txt:Jake had managed to catch a flight out of Kathmandu that had taken him to Doha. He was in an airport hotel waiting for a connecting flight to Barcelona. Whyles said the details of how her son had managed to leave Nepal were sketchy. “We don’t know and I don’t really think he actually knows,” she said.
2923.txt:Over 200 Israelis were due to land at Ben Gurion Airport early Tuesday afternoon as rescue workers in Nepal pressed on with efforts to reach Israeli tourists stranded in remote areas, devastated by a massive earthquake that has killed at least 4,438 people.
2923.txt:A Magen David Adom plane landed Monday afternoon at Tel Aviv’s Sde Dov airport, carrying five babies born to Israeli couples through surrogate mothers. The children and parents were all reported to be in good health.
2923.txt:The exodus came as international rescue teams with sniffer dogs raced to find survivors buried in rubble, and teams equipped with heavy cutting gear and relief supplies landed at the nation’s only international airport.
2924.txt:The exodus came as international rescue teams with sniffer dogs raced to find survivors buried in rubble, and teams equipped with heavy cutting gear and relief supplies landed at the nation's only international airport.
2934.txt:Since Saturday, supplies, search-and-rescue and medical teams have been sent from around the world to Nepal's only international airport, located in the capital, Kathmandu.
2934.txt:But with so many cargo and civilian planes flying in to help, Kathmandu's tiny airport is struggling to cope under the strain. Agencies warn that if you want to help, donate money not stuff and avoid hopping on a plane to Nepal to help with relief efforts in person.
2936.txt:As of today, Bhide told Linton, rescue teams are still struggling to find missing people trapped in the ruins. In one case, a hotel housing four doctors was demolished during the quake. Only one of the doctors survived, and he stationed himself in a Red Cross facility across the street from the demolished hotel. "The flights from Kathmandu airport were delayed and people were stranded [in] several places,” Bhide added. "More than 17 Red Cross camps were set up.”
2939.txt:Foreign countries escalated efforts to get medical equipment, medicine, food, water, blankets, tents and search-and-rescue teams into Nepal, but chaotic scenes at the main international airport slowed the flow of aid.
2940.txt:Link British search and rescue workers load a truck in with specilaist equipment at Tribhuvan International Airport, Kathmandu. Photo: Matt Wade
2940.txt:The international airport in Kathmandu is open, although some scheduled flights have been affected and there are lengthy delays. Ms Bishop encouraged Australians to leave Nepal on a commercial flight if they could.
2940.txt:The timing and frequency of the ADF flights will be subject to capacity constraints at Kathmandu airport and approval by the Nepalese Government.
2940.txt:Link Chinese search and rescue team arrives at Tribhuvan International Airport, Kathmandu. Photo: Matt Wade
2940.txt:Link German sniffer dog arrives at Tribhuvan International Airport, Kathmandu. Photo: Matt Wade
2941.txt:International aid has begun arriving in Nepal, but disbursement has been slow, partly because aftershocks have sporadically closed the airport.
2942.txt:Those who managed to get away from the epicenter were met with chaos at transport hubs, with flights being diverted away from Tribhuvan International Airport, and as many as 6,000 across the region suffered injuries. The airport has since reopened, but those who have been evacuated from the hardest-hit areas are still waiting for a plane out.
2942.txt:Finding space: Tents are seen from an airplane window in an open field next to Tribhuwan International Airport
2943.txt:Even as Kathmandu airport is faced with a critical shortage of parking bays affecting flight schedules, Indian carriers have resumed normal service.
2943.txt:In a statement, Jet Airways said: "Due to relief efforts in Kathmandu, there is a critical shortage of parking bays and resources for scheduled flights arriving at Kathmandu airport."
2947.txt:Nepalese at the airport were reportedly astounded by the Israeli relief mission. One of them was Truban Salama from the city of Pokhara. “My house was not destroyed but many houses in my area were damaged and the situation is pretty terrible,” he told Israel’s Ynet. “We respect and cherish the Israeli aid efforts. Your rescue efforts show your humanity. When I saw the Israeli plane land I asked, ‘What happened?’ ‘Why are you gathering here?’ And then I understood that it was part of the rescue operations.”
2949.txt:Over the past two days, 338 Israelis and 25 infants born to surrogate Nepalese mothers have arrived home from Nepal. The bulk of the survivors flew out of Kathmandu on an El Al jumbo jet that landed at Ben-Gurion Airport around noon on Tuesday.After their departure, Israel turned its focus to rescuing the trapped trekkers and offering humanitarian assistance to the Nepalese, who are struggling to treat more than 9,000 victims. At least 5,000 people have died in the quake and that number is expected to double as rescuers – including Israeli teams – continue to sift through the rubble.Prime Minister Sushil Koirala told Reuters the death toll could reach 10,000, as information on damage from farflung villages and towns has yet to come in.Israel’s “top priority is to locate and extricate Israelis in distress and to help them return safely to Israel,” Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said as he held high-level consultations in his Jerusalem office to assess the situation.There are also approximately nine Israelis who are unaccounted for, and an additional six whose whereabouts were initially known but with whom contact has since been lost.Most of the trekkers awaiting rescue are in the areas of Langtang, Mt. Everest, Annapurna, and Pokhara. In many cases they can only be were now safely in a Nepalese army base.To hear Shani’s voice after three anxious days was an “incredible feeling” that made me want to cry, Elsie told The Jerusalem Post hours later.“It is beyond words,” she said.“From the time my friend called me and told me about the earthquake until the time I got a message from Shani, my body and mind froze.”The nightmarish situation was made somewhat easier by Shani’s decision to bring a satellite phone with her to Nepal to be in touch with her mother. She was the only one in her larger group of 100 international travelers to have a satellite phone, Elsie said.Immediately after the quake, Shani messaged her parents to let them know she and everyone in her group had survived and that no one was injured. They were only four hours into their trek and had stopped to have lunch when the ground shook beneath them, Elsie said.In a message that followed, Shani told her mother: “We found cover and are waiting for rescue.”Elsie suddenly understood that the group had not understood the magnitude of the disaster they had survived.“The situation is not good,” Elsie wrote back to Shani. “Kathmandu was hit badly. There is no water and no electricity. The airport is closed.You need to prepare for being there for a week.”As her daughter waited for rescue, Elsie was busy acting as a one-woman messaging service. She became the contact person for the Israeli group, updating the families of the other trekkers.Elsie created a WhatsApp group for them, but didn’t stop there. She also was in contact with many of the families of the internationals in Spain and with local Nepalese in the nearby village. One of them even contacted her. Elsie said her phone number was circulated on Facebook and on the radio.Although there were media reports of violence between Israeli trekkers and Nepalese citizens, her daughter’s experience was the complete opposite, Elsie said. The group bonded with the nearby villagers as they all worked to survive. The trekkers cleared an open space so the helicopter could land and devised a way to purify water so they could drink, Elsie said. The two Israelis, internationals and locals slept together and ate together, Elsie said.“By Monday I could tell... they were getting scared,” Elsie said. “There were so many aftershocks. The ground was constantly rumbling underneath them and they were running low on food. It scared them to death.”One member of the group had insurance from Harel, Elsie said. Even though it was not her insurance company, Harel was in constant contact with her because of Shani’s satellite phone. They phoned her several times a day.At 4:30 a.m., they were the ones who called to tell her the helicopters were on their way. Shani flew out on one, but left her satellite phone with two Israelis who will be rescued only on Wednesday.Elsie said her daughter is now in a Nepalese army camp, where she plans to remain until her two friends are saved as well.“I feel better,” Elsie said. “But I will feel a lot better when she is out of Kathmandu.”
2951.txt:Marharjan says Nepal is a landlocked country. So when it comes to relief supplies, “it has to be trucked in from India. And some of the roads are not safe right now.” Nepal’s single international airport, in Katmandu, is closed at the moment.
2953.txt:Some aid, including a Norwegian crew with search and rescue dogs, was diverted because there was no capacity to receive incoming flights at the airport in Kathmandu. Conditions there remained chaotic, and there also were reports of emergency shipments of food and water that failed to get through to those needing it.
2954.txt:The city's Tribhuvan International Airport was crowded with tourists and residents desperately seeking to fly out of the devastated Nepali capital.
2954.txt:Despite pledges of assistance from various countries, there were little signs of such foreign aid on the ground in Kathmandu. Some airplanes carrying supplies and rescue workers tried to land at Kathmandu airport on Sunday, but authorities closed the airport immediately after aftershocks shook the ground.
2954.txt:On Monday, an Indian military relief plane turned back after it failed to land at the airport due to congestion, according to an Indian television report.
2957.txt:http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/nepal-earthquake-chaos-tribhuvan-international-airport-rescue/1/432474.html
2957.txt:Nepal earthquake: Chaos at Tribhuvan International Airport hampers rescue operations
2957.txt:Chaos prevailed at Tribhuvan International Airport on Monday as thousands were waiting to be evacuated from the quake-ravaged country. Congestion at the airport, according to reports, is hindering the massive relief operation being carried out by teams from India and other nations.
2957.txt:Four Indian Air Force (IAF) transporters had to return to their bases as they could not land at Kathmandu airport owing to heavy air traffic. The Kathmandu airfield is teeming with stranded people, who are waiting to be evacuated, even as relief materials have been piled up on the tarmac with planes arriving from across the world.
2957.txt:Kathmandu airport is crowded even on a normal day, according to officials. As thousands of people are gathering at the airport to get a flight back home, the problem is getting worse.
2963.txt:A crush at the main international airport, where relief material and rescue teams are flying in while thousands of residents are trying to leave, has slowed the flow of aid.
2965.txt:Help poured in after Saturday’s magnitude-7.8 quake, with countries large and small sending medical and rescue teams, aircraft and basic supplies. The small airport in the capital of Kathmandu was congested and chaotic, with some flights forced to turn back early in the day.
2966.txt:Despite a massive international aid operation being mobilised for the tens of thousands stricken by the devastating earthquake in Nepal, which killed more than 4,300 people, the country's officials scrambled to get aid from the main airport to people left homeless and hungry, while thousands tired of waiting fled the capital Kathmandu for the surrounding plains.
2966.txt:Foreign countries have all escalated efforts to get medical equipment, medicine, food, water, blankets, tents and search-and-rescue teams into Nepal, but chaotic scenes at the main international airport have slowed the flow of aid.
2966.txt:Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport was hobbled by many employees not showing up for work, people trying to get out, and a series of aftershocks which forced it to close several times since the quake.
2966.txt:Aid workers at the Kathmandu airport were quoted by NDTV as saying that they struggled to get planes to land and supplies off the runway because many workers have gone home to deal with relatives, and damaged homes.
2966.txt:"It's a completely chaotic situation," Devendra Singh Tak, who works for Save the Children told NDTV. "The airport is not equipped to manage this kind of traffic, particularly when there's no staff."
2972.txt:The Himalayan nation's government was almost invisible in the quake's immediate aftermath, critics said, although it had stepped up its response by Monday when Home Minister Bam Dev Gautam personally supervised aid delivery at the country's main airport.
2975.txt:Despite a massive international aid operation being mobilised for the tens of thousands stricken by the devastating earthquake in Nepal, which killed more than 4,300 people, the country's officials scrambled to get aid from the main airport to people left homeless and hungry, while thousands tired of waiting fled the capital Kathmandu for the surrounding plains.
2975.txt:Foreign countries have all escalated efforts to get medical equipment, medicine, food, water, blankets, tents and search-and-rescue teams into Nepal, but chaotic scenes at the main international airport have slowed the flow of aid.
2975.txt:Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport was hobbled by many employees not showing up for work, people trying to get out, and a series of aftershocks which forced it to close several times since the quake.
2975.txt:Aid workers at the Kathmandu airport were quoted by NDTV as saying that they struggled to get planes to land and supplies off the runway because many workers have gone home to deal with relatives, and damaged homes.
2975.txt:"It's a completely chaotic situation," Devendra Singh Tak, who works for Save the Children told NDTV. "The airport is not equipped to manage this kind of traffic, particularly when there's no staff."
2980.txt:The Belgian flight was grounded at New Delhi airport next to a dozen Russian, Spanish and Dutch aircraft filled with humanitarian supplies. It was feared that the Belgian mission would have to return to Brussels.
2980.txt:The offer of help is much greater than the capacity of Kathmandu airport can facilitate, with aircraft circling the airport waiting to land.
2981.txt:They walked, pedaled and hitchhiked across treacherous terrain made slippery by incessant rains and roads ripped up by the killer earthquake. For Indians fleeing the Nepalese capital Kathmandu, it was virtually a journey out of hell.Indians from Bihar started arriving at this border township in ones and twos, each with harrowing tales of surviving an arduous journey of more than 250 km from Kathmandu, devastated by Saturday’s 7.9-magitude quake.Most of these people did not wait to be evacuated or seek public transport, which had virtually gone off the roads. The drivers of the few vehicles available demanded the moon for fares — as high as Rs 90,000 for a Tata Sumo, which could at best ferry 10 to 12 people.Samsad Miyan, a 21-year-old carpenter, trekked the distance.A resident of Basavariya village of West Champaran district, he had lived in Kathmandu for the past two years.His bruised arm and torn shirt bore testimony to the hardship he endured to reach the relief camp."While trekking through the wet terrain, as it was raining continuously on Sunday, I slipped and almost fell to my death in a deep valley. Somehow I managed to cling to a shrub and rescued myself, escaping with injuries to my arms and legs. It has taken me a day-and-a-half to reach here," he told Hindustan Times.Pappu Kumar, 22, who worked at a grocery store in Kathmandu and hails from West Champaran district, cycled his way to a relief camp set up by the Sashastra Seema Bal in the Indian border town of Raxaul."I had gone to work when the tremor came. I took my bicycle and fled for life. It has taken me 24 hours to reach the relief camp this morning," he said.The fear for their lives is what egged them to walk and pedal the distance, with not a morsel to eat since Saturday’s breakfast."Bread cost Rs 300 NC (Nepalese currency; one Indian rupee is equivalent to Rs 1.60 Nepalese currency). I didn’t have money. Moreover, with the spectre of death looming large, the hunger pangs vanished. We had tea and biscuits at the relief camp after two days," said Kumar.Sheikh Ataur, a mason from Midnapore in West Bengal, had made Kathmandu his second home till the earthquake struck."Nine of my family members had migrated from Bengal to Kathmandu in search of work. A truck we hopped into to reach here, charged us Rs 800 per head, against a normal fare of Rs 500," he said.Mere Lal Thakur, 30, and Baiju Lal Prasad, 28, both daily wage workers, were critical of the relief arrangements."The first responders were slow to react in Kathmandu. We were told that we would be flown back to India. At least 25,000 Indians had queued up outside the Tribhuvan airport. We waited there from 7am to 11pm on Sunday, completely drenched in the downpour that followed the aftershocks, but our turn never came," said Thakur."We were told that only the injured, the old and the infirm were to be flown. If this message was communicated to us, we would not have stood there braving the rains the whole day."Criticising the relief and rescue operations, Prasad said: "It’s too little and too late. Most stranded Indians in Kathmandu left on their own."The Bihar government had on Monday dispatched some 20 buses to Kathmandu and Pokhara to bring back stranded Indians.
2981.txt:Operations at Kathmandu airport hit by congestion
2985.txt:The C-17 is scheduled to arrive at 5 a.m. Wednesday, Kenney said, but there may be delays because of damage to the Kathmandu airport.
2985.txt:Paradis clarified there is no embassy in Kathmandu, only an honorary consul, which was instructed to work around the clock to provide assistance. Consular officials are en route to Kathmandu, he said, but are having trouble getting there because of the damage to the airport.
2986.txt:Some aid flights were unable to land as Kathmandu's main airport was closed several times on Sunday as a result of aftershocks which continue to jolt the country.
2988.txt:But the lack of space at the country's only international airport was hampering efforts to bring in relief by air.
2988.txt:Japan's International Cooperation Agency said a disaster relief team was making a third attempt Tuesday to enter Kathmandu, after being twice turned away from a crowded airport on Monday.
2992.txt:A military plane carrying 47 survivors of Saturday’s earthquake landed at Eindhoven airport on Tuesday afternoon. A second plane, with 80 people on board, will land at Rotterdam airport on Wednesday morning and a third plane is being planned, the foreign affairs ministry said.
2997.txt:More to the point, search teams aren't only needed for those buried alive. An earlier Reuters report (see first update, below) discusses Nepalis, angry at no help in sight (and still in shock from the quake), digging with their bare hands through rubble to find bodies of relatives. Many bodies are still missing, and if Koirala's estimate of the dead is near the mark there will be a need in the coming days for as many foreign search teams as the country's international airport can accept.
2.txt:Kathmandu (AFP) April 25, 2015 - An historic 19th-century tower collapsed in the heart of Kathmandu's old quarter after an earthquake on Saturday, with at least a dozen bodies seen pulled from the rubble and fears of scores still trapped. Kathmandu (AFP) April 25, 2015 - An historic 19th-century tower collapsed in the heart of Kathmandu's old quarter after an earthquake on Saturday, with at least a dozen bodies seen pulled from the rubble and fears of scores still trapped. The nine-storey Dharhara tower is a major tourist attraction in Durbar Square at the heart of Kathmandu's historic old city where kings were once crowned, with its eighth-floor balcony providing panoramic views of the Kathmandu valley. The tower -- which was white, topped with a bronze minaret and contained a spiral staircase of over 200 steps -- was reduced to just its base when the 7.8-magnitude quake struck at lunchtime. Rescue workers were seen dragging bodies from the rubble and TV footage showed chaotic scenes at the site, as people desperately tried to dig through piles of bricks and dust with their bare hands. Kathmandu police spokesman Dinesh Acharya said rescuers were frantically trying to "bring everyone out to safety". "Our team is still deployed in Dharara to rescue people. However, we do not know how many are still trapped," he told AFP. People took to social media to express their dismay at the historic site's collapse. "Devastating to see Dharhara (Bhimsen Tower) collapsed," user Prabir Bhatt said on Twitter. "The historic #Dharhara tower in #Nepal destroyed by the #Earthquake. Prayers!" wrote Rahul Sharma. Saturday was not the first time the 50.5-metre-high tower -- built by Nepal's then prime minister for the queen in 1832 -- has been hit by an earthquake. Much of Durbar Square, a UNESCO World Heritage site and the social and cultural heart of the city, had to be rebuilt after a huge quake in 1934. The tower collapsed in that quake and was rebuilt two stories lower than the original. The tower was a popular attraction, with tourists charged a small fee to climb the steps to the viewing deck. A small shrine to the Hindu god Shiva was located at the top. The Wikipedia page for the tower was updated within minutes after the earthquake hit, with the news of its collapse. A massive 7.8 magnitude earthquake killed hundreds of people Saturday as it ripped through large parts of Nepal, toppling office blocks and towers in Kathmandu and triggering an avalanche that hit Everest base camp. Officials said at least 449 people are known to have died in Nepal but that the toll could be much higher, while more than two dozen people were also reported killed in neighbouring India, China and Bangladesh. "The death toll based on information received on our network across the country has reached 449," Nepal's national police spokesman Kamal Singh Bam told AFP. "Deaths have been reported from all regions except the far west. All our security personnel have been deployed to rescue and assist those in need." Officials said an avalanche had buried parts of Mount Everest's base camp in Nepal where hundreds of mountaineers have gathered at the start of the annual climbing season. "An avalanche from Mt. Pumori has hit the base camp, burying a part of it," Gyanendra Kumar Shrestha, an official in Nepal's tourism department, told AFP. "We are trying to assess how many are injured. There might be over 1,000 people there right now, including foreign climbers and Nepalese supporting staff." AFP Nepal bureau chief Ammu Kannampilly, on an assignment to Everest, was among those caught up in the chaos and reported that snowfall meant it was impossible for helicopters to reach the area. Two experienced mountaineers said that panic erupted at base camp which was full of climbing teams and had been "severely damaged", while one said the quake triggered a "huge avalanche". -- Historic tower collapses -- But the worst damage was reported in Kathmandu, where the historic nine-storey Dharahara tower, a major tourist attraction, was among the buildings to have been brought down. At least a dozen bodies were taken away from the ruins of the 19th century tower, according to an AFP photographer who saw similar scenes of multiple casualties in other parts of the city. While contact with Nepal was sporadic, a senior Nepalese diplomat warned that the final toll could run into many hundreds. "We have received reports that there is a big loss of property and life in Nepal," Krishna Prasad Dhakal, the deputy chief of mission at Nepal's Embassy in New Delhi, told AFP. "Possibly hundreds of people have died in various parts of the country, particularly in Kathmandu and Pokhara." At least 26 people were known to have died in India, including 17 in the eastern state of Bihar, while buildings in the capital New Delhi had to be evacuated. The United States Geological Survey and India's meteorological service said the shallow quake struck 77 kilometres (48 miles) northwest of Kathmandu at 0611 GMT, with walls crumbling and families racing outside their homes. "The walls of houses have collapsed around me onto the road. All the families are outside in their yards huddled together," an AFP reporter said in Kathmandu. Another resident recounted scenes of panic and mayhem. "Everything started shaking. Everything fell down. The walls around the main road have collapsed. The national stadium's gates have collapsed," Anupa Shrestha said. The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country's only international airport which was briefly closed. Kari Cuelenaere, an official at the Dutch embassy, said the impact had swept the water out of a swimming pool at a Kathmandu hotel where Dutch national day was being celebrated. "It was horrible, all of a sudden all the water came up out of the pool and drenched everyone, the children started screaming," Cuelenaere told AFP. "Some parts of the city fell down, there was dust rising... There were many (rescue) helicopters. Aftershock tremors could be felt more than two hours after the initial quake. Initially measured at 7.5 magnitude, the quake was later adjusted to 7.8, with a depth of 15 kilometres, the USGS said. It hit 73 kilometres east of the tourist town of Pokhara. - Tremors felt across region - Witnesses and media reports said the tremors lasted between 30 seconds and two minutes. "We are in the process of finding more information and are working to reach out to those affected, both at home and in Nepal," Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a tweet. The AFP office in Delhi was evacuated twice following the quake. China's official Xinhua news agency said that two people, including an 83-year-old woman, were killed in the Tibet region as a result of the quake. The earthquake was also felt across large areas of Bangladesh, triggering panic in the capital Dhaka as people rushed out onto the streets. In the garment manufacturing hub of Savar, on the outskirts of Dhaka, at least 50 workers were injured after the quake set off a stampede in a garment factory, according to the private Jamuna television. The area has a history of earthquakes, with a 6.8 magnitude quake that hit eastern Nepal in August 1988 killing 721 people. A magnitude 8.1 quake killed 10,700 people in Nepal and eastern India in 1934. Deadliest earthquakes of the past 30 years
3002.txt:The latest unofficial report indicates Eloise's trekking party is cut off by recent avalanches and unable to reach Lukla, home to the nearest airport.
3004.txt:Anna said Cole plans to be back in the states May 2, but it will all depend on if and when he can get a flight home, because the airport is packed with people flying in and out of Nepal.
3012.txt:Tourists returning from Nepal show their delight to be home as they push trolleys carrying their luggage at Kunming Shangshui International Airport, April 26, 2015. [Photo/CFP]
3012.txt:About 2,000 Chinese tourists have arrived home, while 400 remained stranded at a airport in quake-hit Kathmandu as airlines race to evacuate them following Saturday's earthquake, said Chinese Embassy in Nepal on Monday.
301.txt:Following the quake, Kathmandu’s international airport was shut down.
3020.txt:As the plane carrying the team touched down at the Kathmandu airport, two other planes carrying rescue teams from the United States, Singapore, Israel and Pakistan also arrived, forming long lines in the lobby of the terminal waiting to collect their rescue gear and luggage.
3020.txt:At the airport, the Tzu Chi team contacted the coordinators of the local health authorities and was expected to offer surgery, physician and emergency services the following day in the disaster area.
3023.txt:He also explained that the situation was no better at the airport where over 5,000 people waiting for help and there is acute shortage of food and water at the airport, Jain added.
3024.txt:Meanwhile, the International aid and rescue workers have been continuing to arrive at the airport in Kathmandu following the devastating earthquake.
3026.txt:KATHMANDU: Three Republic of Singapore Air Force (RSAF) C-130 aircraft have landed in the capital of earthquake-hit Nepal to assist with relief efforts. The planes had to be diverted to Indian airports on Monday due to congestion at the Kathmandu airport.
3026.txt:In a Facebook post at 4pm, RSAF said the team is working with Nepalese authorities to unload equipment and supplies at Kathmandu's airport. The RSAF added that a group of Singaporeans in Kathmandu will be flown home via the C-130s later on Tuesday. "We wish them a safe journey home," the RSAF said.
3026.txt:Mr Danial Phua, the leader of MFA's crisis response team said Kathmandu airport was very congested and flights were delayed on Monday due to inclement weather and heavy traffic.
3027.txt:The timing and frequency of the flights will be subject to capacity constraints at Kathmandu airport and approval by the Nepalese Government.
3027.txt:I encourage Australians still in Nepal to continue to pursue all available commercial flight options to leave the country. The international airport in Kathmandu is open, although scheduled flights have been affected and there are lengthy delays.
3030.txt:The Kathmandu airport reopened today (Monday) but the problem is acute congestion as there are too many incoming and outgoing flights.
3032.txt:Mr Danial Phua, the leader of the MFA team in Kathmandu said: “The airport was very congested, and flights were delayed yesterday due to inclement weather and heavy air traffic. We organised the Singaporeans, helped them with their travel documents and updated them on departure details regularly. Our Singaporeans were very calm and patient, and kept their spirits up under trying conditions”.
3032.txt:All three Republic of Singapore Air Force (RSAF) C-130 planes landed in Kathmandu on Tuesday. Plans to evacuate Singaporeans from quake-hit Nepal were delayed when the three C-130 planes could not land at Kathmandu airport on Monday because of congestion.
3032.txt:RSAF updated on Facebook at 4pm on Tuesday that they were unloading their equipment and supplies at Kathmandu Airport.
3033.txt:An El Al plane carrying 229 Israelis who were stranded in earthquake-hit Nepal landed at Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion International Airport early Tuesday afternoon. Among the passengers were 15 newborns, including three premature babies.
3033.txt:After waiting for more than 10 hours at a crammed airport in Kathmandu, which has became the refuge of hundreds of tourists and locals, the Israelis were excited to see the blue-and-white plane arriving to take them home.
3034.txt:Separately, an Israeli jumbo jet with some 216 survivors of the quake landed at Ben-Gurion International Airport on Tuesday. On the plane as well were infants who had been born to surrogate Nepalese women and their Israeli parents.
3037.txt:“The UKISAR team was deployed to Nepal on Sunday 26 April and flew at 9.15pm from Stansted airport in London.”
3037.txt:The UK fire and rescue team were bound for Kathmandu on Sunday but heavy air traffic at the airport led them to divert to Delhi.
3038.txt:For Santhosh Naik and his family, who are the residents of J P Nagar, it was a breather to arrive at Bengaluru. Santhosh, along with his wife, cousin, brother-in-law and niece was on Nepal tour for a week. Narrating the incident, Naik told Citizen Matters: “We were all in our hotel room when we first felt the tremor. Soon we realised it was earthquake and ran out of the hotel. My wife, while climbing down the stairs was injured. Within few hours, we managed to contact Indian Embassy and they directed us to Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu. Due to the injury that my wife was suffering, the Air Force personnel allowed us to flee down to Delhi in the second flight on April 26th and we returned to Bengaluru on the next day.”
3039.txt:A flight chartered by the Swedish Contingencies Agency (MSB) is set to take off from Örebro airport in central Sweden at around noon and is expected to land in Nepal at 1am on Tuesday.
3044.txt:But the lack of space at the country's only international airport was hampering efforts to bring in relief by air.
3044.txt:Japan's International Cooperation Agency said a disaster relief team was making a third attempt Tuesday to enter Kathmandu, after being twice turned away from a crowded airport on Monday.
3045.txt:The first Boeing 747 took off this morning from Dubai heading to Kathmandu airport with the first 90 metric tonnes of aid. The total volume of shipment that shall be sent through the air bridge will exceed 450 metric tonnes and include aid items consisting of emergency health kits, water purification units, water storage and distribution units, blankets, tents, tarpaulin, jerry cans, buckets, plastic sheets, solar lamps, ICT equipment and food items.
3045.txt:Ambassador Hamad Al Shamsi, IHC board member, took the lead in supervising the operations run at the airport, and said, "The UAE leaders and people are well known for their humanitarian commitment and through the IHC, the biggest global logistics hub, we continue to lend a hand to people facing crises around the world".
3050.txt:Yvonne Renshaw, 63, begged officials at Kathmandu airport to put her on a plane to Perth.
3050.txt:People are anxiously waiting at Kathmandu airport to catch a flight out of the quake-ravaged country. Photo: Yvonne Renshaw
3050.txt:Mrs Roberts said Kathmandu airport was packed with thousands of people trying to leave Nepal.
3050.txt:"It was chaos at the airport," she said.
3050.txt:The Mundaring local said after waiting 30 hours at Kathmandu airport, she fought her way into the departure lounge and begged to be put on a flight.
3050.txt:"The timing and frequency of the flights will be subject to capacity constraints at Kathmandu airport and approval by the Nepalese Government, " it read.
3060.txt:"The crowd can very efficiently go through thousands of square kilometers of imagery and identify things," Bullock said. "We can quickly update the map of Kathmandu showing how to bring supplies in and get people out to the airport or to a hospital. It really aids the efficiency of response ... After the event happens there's so much chaos and misinformation, it's hard for responders to figure out what areas need help first."
3066.txt:The international airport in Kathmandu, the capital of Nepal, has been operating normally since Sunday, with passenger planes and aircraft carrying relief supplies arriving from various countries worldwide.
3066.txt:However, some people — mostly Indian nationals — had been waiting at the airport for two days to be evacuated. Indian authorities said they had evacuated 1,935 stranded citizens in Nepal, with officials in New Delhi saying the Indian Air Force had flown 12 missions to bring residents home, including many children.
3070.txt:As of Tuesday, according to the UN, at least 9 international Urban Search and Rescue teams have arrived from countries like Turkey, Spain and India, consisting of 287 personnel and 25 dogs, as well as foreign medical teams. A Humanitarian Staging Area (HSA) in Kathmandu International Airport has been set-up to avoid congestion at the main entry points of affected areas and ease the flow of life-saving commodities, where large-scale relief activities are being undertaken.
3071.txt:KATHMANDU: Three Republic of Singapore Air Force (RSAF) C-130 aircraft have landed in the capital of earthquake-hit Nepal to assist with relief efforts. The planes had to be diverted to Indian airports on Monday due to congestion at the Kathmandu airport.
3071.txt:In a Facebook post at 4pm, RSAF said the team is working with Nepalese authorities to unload equipment and supplies at Kathmandu's airport. The RSAF added that a group of Singaporeans in Kathmandu will be flown home via the C-130s later on Tuesday. "We wish them a safe journey home," the RSAF said.
3071.txt:Mr Danial Phua, the leader of MFA's crisis response team said Kathmandu airport was very congested and flights were delayed on Monday due to inclement weather and heavy traffic.
3073.txt:Due to the limit of capacity of the Kathmandu airport, the tarmac is overloaded and planes carrying relief staff and supplies from many countries are still waiting for their landing under Nepal's coordination. The Chinese side will stay in close communication with the Nepali side, trying to get follow-up Chinese relief staff and materials to Nepal as soon as possible.
3074.txt:As roads in Nepal have been ruined by the earthquake and as the Katmandu Airport is only open for relief services, only limited air services are in operation.
3075.txt:At the Kathmandu airport, foreign planes from India, the US, China, Malaysia, Pakistan, Israel that brought aid and rescue personnel lined up on the crowded tarmac.
3075.txt:The size of the capital's airport is a major hurdle to bring in aid, as only planes of a certain size can land on the single runway.
3077.txt:While crowds are fighting to leave Kathmandu, international rescue teams are touching down in the capital’s airport.
3079.txt:“O.K.” Shani texted back through her satellite phone to let her mother know she understood a helicopter would soon arrive to rescue them.Four hours later, Shani called her mother to say that eight members of the group were now safely in a Nepalese army base.To hear Shani’s voice after three anxious days was an “incredible feeling” that made me want to cry, Elfie told The Jerusalem Post hours later.“It is beyond words,” she said.“From the time my friend called me and told me about the earthquake until the time I got a message from Shani, my body and mind froze.”The nightmarish situation was made somewhat easier by Shani’s decision to bring a satellite phone with her to Nepal to be in touch with her mother. She was the only one in her larger group of 100 international travelers to have a satellite phone, Elfie said.Immediately after the quake, Shani messaged her parents to let them know she and everyone in her group had survived and that no one was injured. They were only four hours into their trek and had stopped to have lunch when the ground shook beneath them, Elfie said.In a message that followed, Shani told her mother: “We found cover and are waiting for rescue.”Elfie suddenly realized that the group had not understood the magnitude of the disaster they had survived.“The situation is not good,” Elfie wrote back to Shani. “Kathmandu was hit badly. There is no water and no electricity. The airport is closed.You need to prepare for being there for a week.”As her daughter waited for rescue, Elfie was busy acting as a one-woman messaging service. She became the contact person for the Israeli group, updating the families of the other trekkers.Elfie created a WhatsApp group for them, but didn’t stop there. She also was in contact with many of the families of the internationals in Spain and with local Nepalese in the nearby village. One of them even contacted her. Elfie said her phone number was circulated on Facebook and on the radio.Although there were media reports of violence between Israeli trekkers and Nepalese citizens, her daughter’s experience was the complete opposite, Elfie said. The group bonded with the nearby villagers as they all worked to survive. The trekkers cleared an open space so the helicopter could land and devised a way to purify water so they could drink, Elfie said. The two Israelis, internationals and locals slept together and ate together, Elfie said.“By Monday I could tell... they were getting scared,” Elfie said. “There were so many aftershocks. The ground was constantly rumbling underneath them and they were running low on food. It scared them to death.”One member of the group had insurance from Harel, Elfie said. Even though it was not her insurance company, Harel was in constant contact with her because of Shani’s satellite phone. They phoned her several times a day.At 4:30 a.m., they were the ones who called to tell her the helicopters were on their way. Shani flew out on one, but left her satellite phone with two Israelis who will be rescued only on Wednesday.Elfie said her daughter is now in a Nepalese army camp, where she plans to remain until her two friends are saved as well.“I feel better,” Elfie said. “But I will feel a lot better when she is out of Kathmandu.”
3090.txt:A LOT Polish Airlines Dreamliner is due to land at Warsaw's Chopin Airport at around 8 pm local time.
3090.txt:The flow of foreign aid to stricken areas has been irregular, owing to congestion at Kathmandu's only airport.
3091.txt:Priority at the damaged international airport in the Nepalese capital Kathmandu was given to aid flights carrying either doctors or search teams, said Capt. Chezki, an Israeli air force pilot who landed an early aid flight and then returned to Israel. He could only be identified by his first name according to Israeli military guidelines.
3091.txt:"It's a challenge," he said. "Not every plane is able to land and a lot of the airport was damaged."
3091.txt:Aid experts said disruptions at the airport are likely to continue, slowing the arrival and distribution of vitally needed supplies.
3091.txt:"The challenge now is getting the airport up and running," he said from Brunwsick, Georgia, in the United States, where he is organizing the shipment that will likely be sent from the Netherlands via a commercial cargo flight.
3091.txt:He said the huge amount of aid being sent means the airport will be challenged to accommodate all of the flights.
3094.txt:Amid the celebration and selfies at the arrival gate at Ben-Gurion Airport on Tuesday, Shay Asael was overcome with emotion, his eyes welling with tears as he let it sink in that his son Or had returned from earthquake-struck Nepal in one piece.
3094.txt:On Tuesday, after days of following every shred of news at a “war room” he set up at the family’s home, Shay finally embraced his son and let the tears come.Shay was one of several dozen family members and friends who came to the arrivals gate on Tuesday to greet loved ones who were among the 216 Israelis evacuated come from Nepal after days of fear and uncertainty.Noam Weingarten, 24, from Ginot Shomron, was goofing off with friends who picked him up at the airport, friends whom he had not expected to see for months. Weingarten arrived in Nepal on his post-army service trek just five days before the earthquake hit on Saturday, ready for a long trip before real life begins.Weingarten said he was attending prayers at the Chabad House in Kathmandu when the lights cut out and the floor started shaking. The rabbi told everyone to hurry outside, and they huddled for safety in a courtyard.“You stand there just making sure no buildings are falling on you and you hold on to one another and try not to fall over. Then we were just moving from side to side; I was very afraid,” Weingarten said.The Chabad building and the others surrounding it seemed to be recently built and strong, but just a short walk away there were older buildings that were completely destroyed and pancaked, and he was certain there were bodies under them, he said.Pini, who was in Nepal with his husband, Micky, and their baby Snir, said that while they did not encounter scenes of chaos like those shown on TV, there were real moments of fear in their 5th floor apartment in Kathmandu when the earthquake hit.“We held Snir and hid under the table singing ‘Shir Hama’alot’ and then it stopped shaking and we ran outside,” he said.Amir and Tal were in a 7th floor apartment in Kathmandu with their three kids, including a newborn, when the building began to shake violently. At first, he did not understand what was happening, and then the realization kicked in and he began “shouting to God for help.”When the shaking stopped they ran downstairs barefoot with their kids and the clothes on their back, and then began the scramble to get back to Israel.The celebratory scene on Tuesday resembled the one a day earlier at Sde Dov Airport in Tel Aviv, when a much smaller group of Israelis returned with their children after being evacuated from the earthquake zone. Like on Tuesday, they thanked the State of Israel, El Al and other Israeli companies that helped, and the Israeli public and media for helping the relief effort.One family stood out on Tuesday, though, that of 22-year-old Or Asraf, whose parents, Orit and Patrick, from Lahavim, near Beersheba, stood in the arrivals gate with a sign asking if anyone had seen their son.They stopped Israelis coming through the gate asking them one by one if they had seen Asraf, interrupting the celebrations for a moment to chase down any shred of news about their son.They last heard from Or on Friday, when he told them that he was leaving on Sunday to start a trek in the Langtang region. Since then his satellite phone has been off, and they haven’t been able to get through.Patrick said his son was on his post-army trip, and that he left for Thailand in December after he fought – and was wounded – in Gaza in Operation Protective Edge with the Golani Brigade’s elite Egoz Reconnaissance Unit.On Tuesday evening, Patrick said they had heard a lot from backpackers who had seen Or in the week before the earthquake, but no one had seen or heard from him since then.Looking around the arrivals gate on Tuesday, Orit looked at the celebrating families all around her, and hoped for the best.“This looks like fun for them,” she said, before asking more survivors if they knew anything about her son.
3096.txt:media_camera Safe ... Fremantle mates Jalada Wilson, 18, Raoul Poncin, 19 and 18-year-old Rin Hutcheson at Perth Airport before they flew to Nepal. Picture: Facebook
3096.txt:media_camera Devastation ... World Vision Australia CEO Tim Costello arrives at Kathmandu International airport on the aftermath of Saturday’s 7.8 magnitude earthquake. Picture: Nathan Edwards
3096.txt:At Dubai International Airport, workers loaded crates packed with relief aid into a Boeing 747 destined for Nepal, just over a four-hour flight away.
3096.txt:media_camera Help ... relief aid destined for Nepal, as a part of the UAE's humanitarian aid to earthquake victims, is loaded onto a Boeing 747 at Dubai International Airport. Picture: AP Photo/Kamran Jebreili
3096.txt:The chief executive of IHC, Shaima al-Zarooni, said relief workers have faced difficulties in delivering needed aid such as temporary shelters, satellite communications gear and medical equipment because of closures and congestion at the airport in Kathmandu.
30.txt:The embassy's staff is circling the area by foot, according to Meir, extending help to the injured while searching of Israelis in the area.Liberman instructed the Foreign Ministry to dispatch employees from other Israeli embassies in the region to assist the staff in Nepal.He said that a plane would be sent to evacuate Israelis from Nepal as soon as the local airport, currently shut down, reopens."Israel extends its hand to Nepal and is prepared to help in any way possible," Liberman said in a statement.The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is still looking into the possibility that Israelis were injured in the earthquake early Saturday morning, and is operating under a state of emergency."We are considering dispatching rescue forces from New Delhi to Katmandu, as we did with the Nepali avalanche in October," the ministry said in a statement.The Home Front Command is also operating under a state of emergency, coordinating arrangements and efforts with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.A spokesman for Magen David Adom EMS said the organization was examining the possibility of sending emergency medical supplies and teams to Nepal.
3101.txt:As roads in Nepal have been ruined by the earthquake and as the Katmandu Airport is only open for relief services, we can only accept items on the list of essential items provided by the Nepalese authorities.
3103.txt:On Tuesday different locations will be assigned to the USAR to search. This is done in consultation with the authorities in Nepal. The coordination for the search and rescue is being done at the USAR base camp close to the Kathmandu airport. The team is also providing assistance at the airport in receiving and distributing newly arrived supplies and aid workers.
3111.txt:An Indian Air Force plane leaves Shillong for Kathmandu on Tuesday. Picture by UB Photos Guwahati, April 28: The Assam government will conduct DNA tests to identify the bodies of its residents who died in the Nepal earthquake. Assam home commissioner L.S. Changsan today said seven persons from Assam -all from Guwahati - were feared dead. Six bodies have been identified by family members so far. The seventh body, suspected to be that of Padma Majumdar of Hengerabari here, could not be identified as her family members said it was not hers. Padma was one of a group of eight from Hengerabari who went to Kathmandu on pilgrimage and was caught in Saturday's disaster. Five of the group are feared dead. Four bodies were identified by a group of relatives who reached Kathmandu yesterday. Padma is feared to be the fifth person killed from the area. Kalpana Adhikari from Bhangagarh area and Hema Saikia from Narikal Basti area of the city were also killed. Changsan said DNA tests would be conducted on all the bodies to be doubly sure about their identity. "We have collected DNA samples from the family members of the victims and it will be matched with those of the bodies," she added. The official said there was delay in bringing the bodies to the state because of problems in flight movement in Kathmandu and inclement weather. "The Kathmandu airport with its limited capacity is incapable of catering to an emergency situation like this. Aircraft have to keep hovering in the sky for an hour or two before they can land. We are expecting the bodies to reach Delhi tonight," she said. Officials in the ministry of external affairs said the bodies would be brought from Kathmandu only in Indian Air Force aircraft. Around five IAF aircraft have been pressed into service at Kathmandu. "Flight communication was affected today because of inclement weather. Yesterday, flight service was affected by a riot-like situation when more than 5,000 Indian nationals tried to enter the airport. Police had to be called in to control the situation," Changsan said. A survivor who reached Guwahati today said there was a 3km-long queue by Indian nationals at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu. She said she could come only because of help offered by an airport official in catching a flight without having to wait in queue. "Buses from Assam have reached Nepal today and we hope it would reduce the burden on flights and chances of further such situation," she said. Changsan said a police team, led by inspector-general S.N. Singh, would leave for Kathmandu tonight and try to bring back people from Assam stranded there by road. She said additional director-general of Assam police Umesh Kumar who tried to board a flight from Delhi to Kathmandu yesterday could not do so and reached Nepal capital this morning. Changsan said of the 141 people from Assam reportedly missing in Nepal, 92 have so far either reached Delhi or Guwahati - five of them reached here today - while 13 have been traced and found to be safe. "Seven injured are in hospitals in Kathmandu and our efforts are on to trace the remaining 22," she added. The relatives of a family of five from Noonmati here, who have been doing business in Kathmandu for the past 15 years, said they had talked to them on Friday, a day before the earthquake. "But after the quake their mobile number is not working," a relative said. The external affairs ministry could not give specific data on how many people from the Northeast were stranded in Nepal. Mockdrill A district-level joint mock drill on earthquake was conducted at the Assam Secretariat in Guwahati today. A mock evacuation exercise was conducted in Block D and E to generate awareness among people in case of disaster. A task force, comprising the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), State Disaster Response Force, fire & emergency services and civil defence, operated under the supervision of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority for planning and co-ordination of the exercise. NDRF rescuers displayed extrication methods like rope rescue, highrise rescue and victim stabilisation. Minister's assurance Revenue and rehabilitation minister Bhumidhar Barman said the government would demolish multi-storey buildings that have been constructed by violating building safety norms in the state. Barman's assurance came after he visited families of Nepal quake victims. The minister also emphasised on widening roads and bylanes in the city to ensure safety during a disaster.
3118.txt:Meanwhile, a team of trekkers from the NSW Mid North Coast who escaped the worst of the earthquake after turning back due to altitude sickness, have been airlifted to a nearby airport.
3118.txt:Late yesterday the team was taken by helicopter to the nearby Lukla Airport to wait a flight to Kathmandu.
3120.txt:The response may seem small thus far. But the relief effort is complicated right now by several factors. A spokesman for the Indian ministry of defense, Sitanshu Kar, said Monday on Twitter that four planes India had sent to Nepal’s capital, Kathmandu, were forced to turn around due to reported congestion at the city’s airport.
3120.txt:The flight is expected to arrive at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, on April 27, according to Warren.
3121.txt:The flight is expected to arrive at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, on April 27, according to Warren.
3122.txt:More than 40 families are living hand-to-mouth in this one camp close to Tribhuvan International Airport, the only airport in Kathmandu. It is a communal existence: each shelter is temporary home to dozens of men, women and children.
3123.txt:Huge queues formed at the city's Tribhuvan International Airport, with tourists and residents desperate to get a flight out.
3126.txt:NICKY Cannon from Vincentia was on the plane while aftershocks shook the already crumbling city around Kathmandu airport.
3126.txt:NICKY Cannon from Vincentia was on the plane while aftershocks shook the already crumbling city around Kathmandu airport.
3126.txt:She was thinking about the damaged home of the man who got her to the airport.
3126.txt:Earlier that day it was the generous nature of the Nepalese people that helped Mrs Cannon get to Kathmandu airport amid the chaos of the damaged city.
3126.txt:“The only way I could get to the airport was by a random person on a motorbike.
3126.txt:Evelyn and Maurice Sandstrom from Culburra Beach were on their way to the airport in Nepal when the earthquake struck.
3126.txt:They spent the next two freezing nights sleeping outside the airport.
3126.txt:“They contacted me after the earthquake to say they were leaving for the airport when it hit.
3127.txt:When they got to the airport, the aftershocks continued, triggering chaotic scenes.
3135.txt:MUMBAI: Bringing in his 64th birthday on Monday, two days after he witnessed the devastating aftermath of the Nepal earthquake, had a special significance for Kalyan resident Akshay Gajre. Recounting the anxious five hours that he and his wife spent till the Indian armed forces rescued them, Gajre said he was only too thankful to be alive.Gajre and his wife, Bharati (58), had gone to Nepal sightseeing with a tour organizer. There were 26 others in the group. "We were to fly out of Kathmandu on Saturday and were leaving the hotel for the airport when the tremors were first felt around 11.45am. There were many elderly people and all were nervous. Old structures were collapsing. Even RCC structures, like our hotel, started to develop cracks. Our group was shepherded into an open ground, where we took shelter for a few hours. But whenever we tried to head back to the bus (for the airport), there were fresh tremors, and we would be forced to run back to the ground," Garje told TOI.Around 4.30pm, the group finally reached the airport. "There were large crowds waiting to be rescued. The elderly were given priority. "Of the four aircraft that arrived, two filled up quickly. We were escorted into the third," Garje said. The couple reached here on Sunday.
3140.txt:As the airport in Kathmandu is still operating, tourists and visitors are still free to come and go, so the government does not have to assist with tourist evacuation yet.
3141.txt:We'd started out together at the Bangkok airport that morning, and there was something calming about the group, capable and reassuring in their blue and orange uniforms.
3141.txt:But Kathmandu's tiny airport was clearly overwhelmed. At one point it was reported that 14 planes were circling the city at any given time. Even Indian army aircraft were turned back.
3144.txt:About one thousand people are camped out at Kathmandu International airport as aid pours in from around the world and foreign nationals struggle to leave.
3144.txt:They were at the Kathmandu's only international airport today, waiting to board a flight to Delhi. They are going on an Intrepid tour, before heading back to New Zealand.
3144.txt:"They're in tents outside. There are 1000 people sleeping at the airport."
3144.txt:"People are very positive. Even at the airport, no-one's panicking, everything is orderly - as much as they can be."
3145.txt:Britain in sending additional 30 medics to treat the injured and heavy lifting equipment to move aid supplies off aircraft and ease congestion at Kathmandu airport.
3145.txt:The group says aid workers are hindered by a congested airport in capital Kathmandu, impassable and destroyed roads which have left several remote villages still largely cut off.
3147.txt:Haskins told News24 from OR Tambo International Airport that four search and rescue specialists from the police would be flying out with the disaster response organisation Gift of the Givers on Tuesday.
3148.txt:The team ran into difficulties – the airport in Kathmandu was at first closed to air traffic and they had to make alternative arrangements for a chartered plane to land in India. For this, they needed visas, and the Indian embassy opened on Sunday exclusively for them to issue the visas. “Now we don’t need visas any longer, as the airport is open and we will take a commercial flight, with a team of six doctors with medical and other supplies.”
3150.txt:According to the Crisis Response Team's leader, Mr Danial Phua, the Kathmandu Airport was very congested and flights were delayed on Monday.
3151.txt:The MFA despatched a Crisis Response Team to Kathmandu yesterday. This team is based at the Kathmandu International Airport to assist Singaporeans.
3155.txt:As soon as he landed at the Bangkok airport, Koirala saw Modi's tweets on the quake, Nepal's Minister for Foreign Affairs Mahendra Bahadur Pandey said on Tuesday.
3162.txt:"We are facing huge logistical difficulties. As well as roads being closed, aftershocks have prevented planes from landing at Kathmandu airport.
3163.txt:"We are facing huge logistical difficulties. As well as roads being closed, aftershocks have prevented planes from landing at Kathmandu airport.
3164.txt:“It starts right from the airport,” he said. “It’s a small airport and it can only really handle eight planes at one time, and there’s a huge amount of international aid coming in.
3173.txt:But The Dallas Morning News (http://bit.ly/1Ac9doG ) reports Sharon Banks said she won’t be completely free of the anxiety that has gripped her until her daughter arrives at luggage claim at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport on Saturday.
3173.txt:She flies from Kathmandu to Doha, Qatar, then boards a jet that will carry her to DFW airport in 16 hours.
3176.txt:A crush at the main international airport, where relief material and rescue teams are flying in while thousands of residents are trying to leave, has slowed the flow of aid.
3177.txt:A crush at the main international airport, where relief material and rescue teams are flying in while thousands of residents are trying to leave, has slowed the flow of aid.
3178.txt:Help poured in after Saturday’s magnitude 7.8 quake, with countries large and small sending medical and rescue teams, aircraft and basic supplies. The small airport in the capital, Kathmandu, was congested and chaotic, with some flights forced to turn back early in the day.
3179.txt:A Sherpa cook, Bhim Bahadur Khadtri, 35, said he was preparing a meal when the avalanche rumbled. "We all rushed out to the open and the next moment a huge wall of snow just piled on me," he told the AP in brief airport interview before he was driven to a hospital. "I managed to dig out of what could easily have been my grave. I wiggled and used my hands as claws to dig as much as I could. I was suffocating, I could not breathe. But I knew I had to survive."
3181.txt:At Kathmandu airport, flights arrived with emergency aid and helicopters brought in both foreign trekkers and local villagers from quake-struck areas. Helicopters chartered by trekking companies reached the Langtang area, about 60 kilometers (40 miles) north of Kathmandu, a popular area for trekking — a key contributor to the country's economy.
3181.txt:Foreign planes from India, the U.S., China, Malaysia, Pakistan and Israel that brought aid and rescue personnel lined up on the crowded tarmac at Kathmandu's airport.
3181.txt:Coming out of the airport with dried blood on his face and legs, Min Bahadur Raut said he got a ride on a helicopter from a neighbor who had chartered a flight for his mother. He was not able to move his left arm.
3182.txt:At the Kathmandu airport, foreign planes from India, the US, China, Malaysia, Pakistan, Israel that brought aid and rescue personnel lined up on the crowded tarmac.
3182.txt:The size of the capital's airport is a major hurdle to bring in aid, as only planes of a certain size can land on the single runway.
3183.txt:"Within two days of the quake, 12 Chinese civil jets had carried more than 1,600 Chinese stranded at the Kathmandu Airport in Nepal," said a statement released by the Foreign Ministry on Monday evening.
3184.txt:Britain in sending additional 30 medics to treat the injured and heavy lifting equipment to move aid supplies off aircraft and ease congestion at Kathmandu airport.
3184.txt:The group says aid workers are hindered by a congested airport in capital Kathmandu, impassable and destroyed roads which have left several remote villages still largely cut off.
3185.txt:At Kathmandu airport, flights arrived with emergency aid and helicopters brought in both foreign trekkers and local villagers from quake-struck areas. Helicopters chartered by trekking companies reached the Langtang area, about 60 kilometers (40 miles) north of Kathmandu, a popular area for trekking — a key contributor to the country's economy.
3185.txt:At the Kathmandu airport, foreign planes from India, the U.S., China, Malaysia, Pakistan, Israel that brought aid and rescue personnel lined up on the crowded tarmac.
3185.txt:Coming out of the airport with dry blood on his face and legs, Min Bahadur Raut said he got a ride on a helicopter from a neighbor who had chartered a flight for his mother. He was not able to move his left arm.
3186.txt:Victims of Saturday’s earthquake, wait for ambulances to take them to hospitals after being evacuated at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, Monday, April 27, 2015. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri)
3186.txt:At Kathmandu airport, flights arrived with emergency aid and helicopters brought in both foreign trekkers and local villagers from quake-struck areas. Helicopters chartered by trekking companies reached the Langtang area, about 60 kilometers (40 miles) north of Kathmandu, a popular area for trekking - a key contributor to the country's economy.
3186.txt:Foreign planes from India, the U.S., China, Malaysia, Pakistan and Israel that brought aid and rescue personnel lined up on the crowded tarmac at Kathmandu's airport.
3186.txt:Coming out of the airport with dried blood on his face and legs, Min Bahadur Raut said he got a ride on a helicopter from a neighbor who had chartered a flight for his mother. He was not able to move his left arm.
3187.txt:International aid has begun arriving in Nepal, but disbursement has been slow, partly because aftershocks have sporadically closed the airport.
3189.txt:Last Sunday, the Finnish Interior Ministry decided to dispatch a 29-member rescue team to the quake-hit country, but later canceled the mission as the team was unable to get permission to land at Nepal's single international airport.
3190.txt:Standing in the entrance hall in Ben-Gurion Airport on Tuesday afternoon as 216 Israelis returned from quake-ravaged Nepal, Orit Asraf appealed to the fresh arrivals for any information about her son’s whereabouts.
3190.txt:His family last heard from him on Friday, and none of those arriving at the airport had any information to offer his mother, who carried a large banner reading “Who has seen Or Asraf?” and stood amid the tearful embraces and joyful reunions of the returning Israelis.
3190.txt:At Kathmandu airport, flights arrived with emergency aid and helicopters brought in both foreign trekkers and local villagers from quake-struck areas.
3192.txt:A fight has apparently broken out at the hospital where Sexy Boys gang leader Jerome "Donkie" Booysen, who was wounded in a shooting at Cape Town International Airport on Wednesday, is admitted.
3195.txt:The six West Sussex firefighters, who have responsibility for the logistics operation, are part of a UK team of 67 responders including search and rescue crews, four search dogs, a medical support team and hazardous materials specialists. The team flew from Stansted Airport at 9.15pm last night and are scheduled to land in Nepal’s capital Kathmandu later today.
3197.txt:The exodus came as international rescue teams with sniffer dogs raced to find survivors buried in rubble, and teams equipped with heavy cutting gear and relief supplies landed at the nation’s only international airport.
3207.txt:It took her hours to arrive at the Tribhuvan international airport, Kathmandu. She said: "It was hard to get transportation to the airport because the locals were trying to escape from the city due to aftershock tremors."
3207.txt:Adding to her tension, she could not book a flight once she arrived at the airport because it was shut down and was only operational on the next day (Sunday).
3207.txt:Moreover, Loy said the airport was flocked with foreign tourists, who wanted to return home, and many of them lost their pasports or travel documents in the quake.
3208.txt:The Malaysian Embassy in Nepal has set up a temporary operations centre at the Kathmandu airport.
3223.txt:"It’s a landlocked country — no shipping port — airports and roads damaged — in the middle of the Himalayas — mountains and dirt roads," Shannon said.
3241.txt:South African Police Service The KwaZulu-Natal SAPS Provincial management team led by Lieutenant General Mmamonnye Ngobeni has extended their best wishes to Pietermaritzburg Search and Rescue Unit member, Lieutenant Jack Haskins and his K9 partner, Bear, after they were selected to assist with the Nepal disaster. Haskins who has 21 years of experience in search and rescue operations was delighted that he will be able to use his skills and expertise to assist the victims of the Nepal earthquake disaster. He flew to the OR Tambo International Airport last night to join other search and rescue members from across the country. They are expected to leave this afternoon to Nepal. The KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Mmamonnye Ngobeni said she fully supports Haskins for the duration of his duties at Nepal. “We wish him good luck and we hope he returns home safely after the duration of the rescue operation,” she said.
325.txt:Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who was attending a summit in Jakarta, tried to rush back home but made it as far as Bangkok where his connecting flight to Kathmandu was cancelled because the capital's international airport was shut for commercial flights.
3264.txt:A Nepalese solider helps a child injured in the earthquake, pictured as they wait to disembark from an Indian Air Force helicopter at the airport in Kathmandu
3266.txt:“We are facing huge logistical difficulties. As well as roads being closed, aftershocks have prevented planes from landing at Kathmandu airport.”
3266.txt:The airport, she said was very, very congested with so many relief supplies and humanitarian workers coming in, plus a lot of Nepalese people wanting to leave.
3268.txt:A crush at the main international airport, where relief material and rescue teams are flying in while thousands of residents are trying to leave, has slowed the flow of aid.
326.txt:Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who was attending a summit in Jakarta, tried to rush back home but made it as far as Bangkok where his connecting flight to Kathmandu was canceled because the capital’s international airport was shut down.
3272.txt:A crush at the main international airport, where relief material and rescue teams are flying in while thousands of residents are trying to leave, has slowed the flow of aid.
3275.txt:Foreign countries escalated efforts to get medical equipment, medicine, food, water, blankets, tents and search and rescue teams into Nepal, but chaotic scenes at the country's main international airport slowed the flow of aid.
3276.txt:International aid has begun arriving in Nepal, but disbursement has been slow, partly because aftershocks have sporadically closed the airport.
3278.txt:» 11:00 a.m. (0515 GMT) The first aid shipments have reached Dhading district, close to the epicenter of the devastating earthquake in Nepal. U.N. food agency emergency officer Geoff Pinnock says the distribution in remote quake-hit villages will start Wednesday, but cautions it would take time. "Remember Katrina. It doesn't happen overnight," he said. In Gorkha, the neighboring district to the west, five cargo trucks filled with rice, cooking oil and sugar stood on a grassy field in Majuwa village waiting for a helicopter from Kathmandu to take the supplies to the hardest-hit areas of that district. The World Food Program also expects the delivery of high-energy biscuits, which will be send out to areas without enough water for cooking. A woman becomes emotional during a candle light vigil on Tuesday, April 28, 2015, in front of the Boulder County Courthouse in Boulder, Colo., in honor and memory of the victims of the catastrophic earthquake in Nepal which killed more than 4000 people and left thousands homeless. (Jeremy Papasso/The Daily Camera via AP) NO SALES (Jeremy Papasso/AP) — Katy Daigle, Majuwa, Nepal ——— 10:30 a.m. (0445 GMT) A man pulled from the rubble of a collapsed building in Kathmandu more than three days after the deadly Nepal earthquake says he drank his own urine to survive. Rishi Khanal tells The Associated Press that he had given up all hope of rescue as his lips cracked and his nails turned white. There were dead bodies around him and a terrible smell. But he kept banging on the rubble all around him and eventually this brought a French rescue team that extracted him after an operation lasting many hours. He's now being treated for leg injuries at a hospital in the capital the day after French rescuers found him and brought him out from a collapsed hotel. He had been buried for 82 hours. Advertisement — Rishi Lekhi, Kathmandu, Nepal —— 9:15 a.m. (0330 GMT) While many villages across Nepal are still waiting for rescue and relief teams, life in the capital, Kathmandu, is slowly returning to normal. Municipal workers on Wednesday began cleaning the streets, and the "kalimati bazaar" — the vegetable market — has reopened. Before first light, truckloads of fresh produce were unloaded and customers began to arrive. Shasha Shrestha, 8, holds a candle with the help of her grandmother Suren Shrestha, of Boulder, during a candle light vigil on Tuesday, April 28, 2015, in front of the Boulder County Courthouse in Boulder Colo., in honor and memory of the victims of the catastrophic earthquake in Nepal which killed more than 4000 people and left thousands homeless. (Jeremy Papasso/The Daily Camera via AP) NO SALES (Jeremy Papasso/AP) — Bernat Armangue, Kathmandu, Nepal ——— 9:00 a.m. (0315 GMT) Britain in sending additional 30 medics to treat the injured and heavy lifting equipment to move aid supplies off aircraft and ease congestion at Kathmandu airport. International Development Secretary Justine Greening says the additional support brings the total U.K. response to the earthquake to 15 million pounds ($23 million). ——— 8:00 a.m. (0215 GMT) Thousands of people are lining up at bus stations in Kathmandu where the government is providing free transportation for people hoping to travel to their hometowns and villages. The government has even deployed school buses to supplement the overstretched service. A man sleeps in his store with the shutters open in Kathmandu, Nepal, Tuesday, April 28, 2015. Across central Nepal, including in Kathmandu, the capital, hundreds of thousands of people are still living in the open without clean water or sanitation since Saturday?s massive earthquake, one of the worst to hit the South Asian nation in more than 80 years. (AP Photo/Niranjan Shrestha) (Niranjan Shrestha/AP) Many of the people from other districts who work in the capital have received little news of their families and loved ones since Saturday's magnitude 7.8 temblor, which killed more than 4,700 people and devastated the infrastructure including communication lines. Others are simply scared of staying on so close to the quake's epicenter. "I am hoping to get on a bus, any bus heading out of Kathmandu. I am too scared to be staying in Kathmandu. The house near my rented apartment collapsed. It was horrible. I have not gone indoors in many days. I would rather leave than a live life of fear in Kathmandu," said Raja Gurung, who was leaving for his home in the mountains of west Nepal. In this photo provided by World Vision, a house stands destroyed by Saturday?s earthquake at Paslang village in Gorkha municipality, Nepal, Monday, April 27, 2015. Reports received so far by the government and aid groups suggest that many communities perched on mountainsides are devastated or struggling to cope. Udav Prashad Timalsina, the top official for the Gorkha district, near the epicenter of Saturday's quake, said he was in desperate need of help. (Bishwo Ghimire/World Vision via AP) (Bishwo Ghimire/AP) Suresh Sah, a construction worker from southern Nepal, said that when the quake hit, "the first thing I thought about was my son back in the village. I have been trying to leave but there was no bus available. I just want to hold my family." — Binaj Gurubacharya, Kathmandu, Nepal ——— 8:00 a.m. (0215 GMT) Aid agencies, including World Vision, say they face huge challenges as they respond to the weekend's deadly earthquake. World Vision says the death toll — now at 4,700 — will likely rise as response teams continue to trek to the most remote areas near the epicenter. Nepalese volunteers unload relief material brought in an Indian air force helicopter for victims of Saturday?s earthquake at Trishuli Bazar in Nepal, Monday, April 27, 2015. The death toll from Nepal's earthquake is expected to rise depended largely on the condition of vulnerable mountain villages that rescue workers were still struggling to reach two days after the disaster. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri) (Altaf Qadri/AP) The group says aid workers are hindered by a congested airport in capital Kathmandu, impassable and destroyed roads which have left several remote villages still largely cut off. The group says international aid agencies are also stretched thin as they respond to multiple humanitarian crises across the world including Syria and South Sudan, Phillip Ewert, Operations Director for World Vision in Nepal, says, "we know the clock is ticking for those impacted by the earthquake in some of the most remote areas — aid is a matter of life or death for many at this point." — Binaj Gurubacharya, Kathmandu, Nepal ——— 1:30 a.m. (1945 GMT) Some Virginia-based organizations in the United States have joined the earthquake relief efforts in Nepal. Operation Blessing International says it has brought several portable hand-held water treatment units developed by partner Aqua Research LLC. The device disinfects up to 80 gallons of water using only table salt and a single battery charge. The Christian Broadcasting Network says it has humanitarian workers assisting authorities in Nepal with rescue efforts and other needs. The organization also plans to set up a medical outreach to treat the injured and provide temporary shelters for families whose homes have been destroyed. Saturday's magnitude-7.8 earthquake killed more than 4,700 people and injured over 8,000. . Both Operation Blessing and the Christian Broadcasting Network are based in Virginia Beach ——— 1:20 a.m. (19:35 GMT) Guiding companies say all climbers on the Nepal side of Mount Everest have left the mountain and the climbing season is over following a deadly avalanche that swept through base camp following the huge earthquake in Nepal. Gordon Janow is director of programs at Seattle-based Alpine Ascents International. He says most Everest summits occur between May 10 and 20, so it's too late to think about trying to go back up the mountain before monsoon season. The huge avalanche on Everest that killed 18 and injured dozens happened after Saturday's magnitude-7.8 earthquake killed at least 4,600 people in the Himalayan nation. Every year hundreds of people attempt to scale the world's tallest mountain, with many paying tens of thousands of dollars to guide companies that attempt to get them to the 29,029-foot (8,850-meter) summit. — Martha Bellisle, Seattle ——— 12:05 a.m. (1820 GMT) The U.S. State Department has identified the third of four Americans it had announced were killed in the Nepal earthquake. Besides the two identified yesterday, State Department spokesman Jeff Rathke said Marisa Eve Girawong also was killed. Those announced Monday were Thomas Ely Taplin and Vinh B. Truong. The fourth has not yet been identified. — Wendy Benjaminson, Washington ——— 11:20 p.m. Tuesday (1735 GMT) An official says Nepal's earthquake was picked up as far away as Antarctica and Argentina by seismic stations that monitor the globe for underground nuclear testing. The executive secretary of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization told reporters Tuesday that 70 stations in all detected Saturday's magnitude-7.8 earthquake. Lassina Zerbo says the monitoring stations can pick up the effects of an earthquake, but they are not able to predict one. Zerbo spoke on the sidelines of a United Natinos gathering of world powers to discuss progress toward a world free of nuclear weapons. — Cara Anna, United Nations
3281.txt:"Some of these villages you can only fly to – and in many cases you fly to the airport, and then you hike for another 12, 14, 15 hours."
3281.txt:Mr Clarke says it would be better for New Zealanders to contribute cash rather than goods, so World Vision can acquire exactly what's needed on the ground. Nepalese airports are already having to turn back planes full of supplies due to congestion, and it would be a waste to have planes full of unneeded items to cause further delays.
3284.txt:A crush at the main international airport, where relief material and rescue teams are flying in while thousands of residents are trying to leave, has slowed the flow of aid.
3285.txt:When Sheridan arrived at the international airport in Kathmandu on Tuesday, handlers told The Daily Telegraph he wouldn’t be able to speak with other media. Not long after they shot a promo called Moving Mountains, plugging it would follow My Kitchen Rules.
3285.txt:The International Airport, which has nine landing spots, is running around the clock.
3285.txt:media_camera Actor Hugh Sheridan at Kathmandu International Airport / Picture: Nathan Edwards
3291.txt:Two IL-76 planes were dispatched to an airport in Chengdu, capital of southwest China's Sichuan Province, and one IL-76 plane was placed at an airport in Kunming, capital of nearby Yunnan Province, to transport PLA rescuers and logistics to Nepal.
3291.txt:The Air Force has thoroughly planned its choice of airports and air routes as well as mission details, Shen said.
3298.txt:Meanwhile, another batch of 10 pilgrims reached the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport this morning. Control rooms set up by Andhra Pradesh and Telangana Governments have been receiving calls from the relatives.
32.txt:Commercial flights to and from Kathmandu were terminated earlier Saturday after the international airport shut due to the earthquake. Israel plans to dispatch a search and rescue unit to Kathmandu and set up a field hospital, and to fly Israelis in Nepal back home, but rescue operations are on hold until the international airport reopens.
3304.txt:Mariusz Małkowski after landing at Newark Liberty Airport from Nepal. (Fibaro)
3304.txt:According to Fibaro's website he landed at Newark Liberty International Airport early on Tuesday.
3304.txt:Michael Churton, 38, right, from New York city, who was injured in an avalanche, set off by the massive earthquake that struck Nepal, bids good-bye to fellow climbers U.S. citizen Mariusz Malkowski from New Jersey, centre, and Ron Nissien from Australia after their return to the domestic airport in Kathmandu, Nepal (AP Photo/Manish Swarup)
3305.txt:At Kathmandu airport, flights arrived with emergency aid and helicopters brought in both foreign trekkers and local villagers from quake-struck areas. Helicopters chartered by trekking companies reached the Langtang area, about 60 kilometers (40 miles) north of Kathmandu, a popular area for trekking — a key contributor to the country’s economy.
3305.txt:At the Kathmandu airport, foreign planes from India, the U.S., China, Malaysia, Pakistan, Israel that brought aid and rescue personnel lined up on the crowded tarmac.
3305.txt:Coming out of the airport with dry blood on his face and legs, Min Bahadur Raut said he got a ride on a helicopter from a neighbor who had chartered a flight for his mother. He was not able to move his left arm.
3308.txt:Umesh Zirpe, a noted mountaineer and Himalaya expert, has survived many a calamity on his expeditions in the past. On Saturday morning, when devastation struck this mountain country, Zirpe was driving to the airport to check on flight details of a team of mountaineers, who had completed yet another voyage, when he suddenly felt his car shake up. For a split second as Zirpe was about to consider a flat tyre, he saw houses around him collapse like a pack of cards, reduced to dust instantly.
3308.txt:Minutes later, volunteers from his organisation Giripremi back in Pune, were set in motion to begin preparations for rescue operations. On Sunday, Zirpe and 12 other mountaineers from Pune who were on an expedition, reached Kathmandu airport safely, to take a flight back home, but Zirpe has decided to stay back.
3309.txt:CUTTACK: National Disaster Response Force (NDRF)'s Collapsed Structure Search And Rescue (CSRR) team has proved its mettle in carrying out rescue operations in earthquake-devastated Nepal, claimed NDRF officials here.The CSSR teams, equipped with hi-tech equipment, are not only tracing alive persons under heaps of rubble but also providing immediate medical treatment to those rescued, said commandant of NDRF Munduli battalion M K Yadav.Three teams from Munduli battalion, located on the outskirts of Cuttack, are on standby to rush to Nepal. Yadav said the CSSR teams are equipped with life detector machines, which are fitted with sensors that can detect heartbeats 4 to 5 metres under concrete rubble, video cameras, which can be put into holes to locate survivors, sniffer dogs, drilling and concrete cutting machines that can precisely and accurately cut heavy sheets of concrete within seconds."On directions from headquarters, we have readied our three CSSR teams, each comprising 45 personnel, for carrying out rescue operations in Nepal. But due to bad weather and congestion at Nepal airport, we are yet to get the go-ahead," said Yadav."All our equipment is packed and on receiving orders from headquarters we will immediately be airlifted to Nepal," said Yadav.Ten CSSR units are currently deployed in Nepal and so far, they have rescued over a dozen persons from under debris and pulled out 50 dead bodies from the rubble, claimed officials.Each CSSR team has three components: search, rescue and medical help. Among the 45 members, there are doctors who are trained to provide immediate medical help to quake victims, technical experts, sniffer dogs, and a team of rescuers.who in no time can dig into heaps of debris. "We have to be very careful while carrying out rescue operations as there is chance that the debris may cave inside while cutting and suffocate the survivor. It needs precision and expertise to carry out such operations," said Yadav. NDRF officials said Nepal government has been using earthmovers to remove debris and retrieving the injured manually, but the entire procedure is very time consuming as there is debris everywhere."Our hi-tech CSSR teams have definitely expedited the rescue work," said Yadav. Notably, the disaster response force was formed in 2006, after the devastating Tsunami hit India in 2004. EOM
3319.txt:It took her hours to arrive at the Tribhuvan international airport, Kathmandu. She said: "It was hard to get transportation to the airport because the locals were trying to escape from the city due to aftershock tremors."
3319.txt:Adding to her tension, she could not book a flight once she arrived at the airport because it was shut down and was only operational on the next day (Sunday).
3319.txt:Moreover, Loy said the airport was flocked with foreign tourists, who wanted to returned home, and many of them lost their passports or travel documents in the quake.
3320.txt:Plan is receiving reports of widespread devastation in remote districts located just west of the earthquake’s epicentre, with a further 6.7-magnitude aftershock felt in the region, closing Kathmandu airport and hampering the delivery of aid.
3322.txt:"They have made two attempts to land at the airport in Kathmandu and on both occasions they have been turned away, but we are determined we are going to get them there."
3323.txt:Maisel, whose call with ISRAEL21c was ended prematurely due to communication problems dogging the country since the magnitude 7.9 earthquake hit on Saturday, said that despite press accounts of some chaotic scenes, such as Nepalese citizens storming the airport, he has not witnessed any panic so far.
3328.txt:Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport was hobbled by many employees not showing up for work, people trying to get out, and a series of aftershocks which forced it to close several times since the quake.
3333.txt:A CNN team at Kathmandu's main airport on Monday saw large numbers of cargo planes on the tarmac, but also witnessed chaotic scenes as officials struggled to cope with the influx of aid and the large numbers of people trying get out of the country.
3333.txt:The airport was also facing some of the shortages afflicting the disaster-hit nation.
3333.txt:"Even at the airport in Kathmandu, there is no drinking water or food or other provisions available, so one can imagine what might be happening in other parts of the country," said Tak of Save the Children.
3336.txt:International help is slowly reaching the country but efforts are being badly hampered by poor weather, impassable roads, a lack of helicopters and continued congestion at Kathmandu airport.
3340.txt:Reports also state that foreign aid is arriving the country but being is hampered by congestion at Kathmandu's only airport.
3342.txt:: When a massive earthquake shattered Nepal and the surrounding region last Saturday, millions of lives were changed in myriad ways. At present, the death toll has risen to a staggering 4,000 people, among survivors, many lost all that was familiar.Today, barely four days after the 7.8 magnitude earthquake overwhelmed the otherwise-scenic region, search and recovery process are relentlessly ongoing.Nepali migrant workers in Kuala Lumpur have been left in the dark as to what had happened in their beloved hometown.Chandra Sarki, 22 left her home in Sindhuli District located in Janakpur -- a neighbourhood so rife with hostility to earn a sustainable living -- in search of greener pastures in Malaysia not too long ago.When Sharki received news about the devastating quake, she made incessant phone calls to her family members in Nepal only to learn that her efforts to reach out to her next-of-kin have turned futile due to disrupted communication networks.That has left Sarki and many Nepalis in Kuala Lumpur in the dark not knowing what has transpired and the agony just grows bigger with their anticipation.Bishnu Giri, 28 received heart-wrenching news that shook her: her mother was one of the fatalities of the quake. It was not too long ago when Giri gathered strength to leave her loved ones to provide her family with a better future.All hope was lost when she received news about her mother. Giri’s heart sank as she attempted to fathom the fact that her mother had died in the tragedy."My brother lied to me. I spoke to him on Saturday after the earthquake struck and he comforted me saying that there were no casualties in the family.Bewildered, Giri said she was left in anguish not knowing her other family members’ situation in Nepal.When met by Astro AWANI at the Nepal Embassy in Kuala Lumpur on Monday, Giri said that her brother had also told her that their properties and livestock were also lost in the earthquake.Nabaraj BK, 34 who has resided in Malaysia since 2006 is also dealing with the agony of loss after his parents, wife and son have died in the devastation.Since he arrived in Kuala Lumpur, Nabaraj has been diligently working and has not been home. He said that all he wanted now is to go home and be with the other family members.“My brother-in-law is the only contact person, other than him there’s no one else,” said a devastated Nabaraj, adding that he last communicated with his brother-in-law at approximately 10pm (Malaysian time) on Sunday..When asked about his plans, Nabaraj said he has made arrangements to fly to Nepal but needed to wait until Tuesday to settle pending matters.The Tribhuvan International Airporta, Kathmandu which was initially closed has been reopened for search and rescue missions.Massive international aid relief had poured in from around the world with dozens of nations or aid groups volunteering everything from sniffer dogs to inflatable hospital.The general sentiment among the family members of the victims is the undying hope to reestablish communication with those they know and are still alive in Nepal.A lack of electricity in Nepal would soon be complicated by a scarcity of water, aid groups said, with medical supplies also dwindling.Oxfam Australia chief executive Helen Szoke told AFP that communication systems are congested and hospitals are crowded and are running out of room for storing dead bodies.The official death toll in Nepal from the massive weekend earthquake has risen to almost 4,000 (on Monday) and with the search and rescue efforts being far from over, the number is still expected to increase."The death toll has reached 3,218 and over 6,500 are injured," said Rameshwor Dangal, who heads the home ministry's national disaster management division.Aid groups and governments worldwide intensified efforts on Sunday to help the region but blocked roads, downed power lines and overcrowded hospitals posed formidable challenges in an already poor country.Also, helicopters were deployed on Monday to rescue climbers still stranded high on Mount Everest after an earthquake-triggered avalanche killed at least 18 people on the world's highest peak, officials said.A total of three helicopters were sent for about 150 climbers trapped at Camps One and Two after Saturday's avalanche sent down slabs of ice and snow, cutting them off from base camp below, the Nepalese officials said.
334.txt:Moreover, the early reports also say that airport of the capital of Nepal also faced damages. It is thought to be the worst earthquake to strike Nepal since the devastating one in 1934, which all but destroyed Kathmandu.
3357.txt:Lukla is considered one of the most dangerous airports in the world with a precipitous fall at the end of the runway. Yet, everyday, several single engine planes connect this gateway to the Everest region to the rest of the world. dna is the only Indian newspaper to have a correspondent in the Everest region close to the site of the tragedy at the Everest base camp.
335.txt:About 5,500 army troops and 700 border paramilitaries were deployed to reopen access to the city, after more than 400 rescue workers from the National Disaster Relief Force found themselves stranded in an airport more than 120km from Gangtok due to landslides and cave-ins which had severed the main motorway.
3362.txt:“They are coming up with the manpower and the relief items. These items are in the airport," Chalisey said. "But if you look at the ground, it appears that it has not reached the people. ... We need to improve the supply system and the coordination, because there are many actors, there is lots of relief supplies, but still the people they are demanding, in many public open places, they are devoid of drinking water and tent.”
3362.txt:The entry point for Nepal is Kathmandu. However, its small airport is struggling, unable to cope with the rush of people, equipment and materials coming in or with foreign nationals clamoring to leave the shattered country.
3362.txt:There are chaotic crowds outside the airport. Those trying to leave Nepal include thousands of Indians.
3362.txt:Indian Foreign Secretary Subrahmanyam Jaishankar said the Kathmandu airport faces severe constraints and limitations.
3362.txt:“The ground reality or the air reality is actually very tough … getting landing slots, unloading, turning flights around, all of that has been very difficult because the airport is under enormous pressure," Jaishankar said.
3363.txt:Pouring international aide has already choked Tribhuvan International Airport, sources said. The result is that out of the six NDRF teams that were scheduled to fly to Kathmandu on Monday, only three could reach. Three others were still waiting in Bhatinda to get air clearance to take the flight at the time of going to press.
3363.txt:"There are flights loaded with food items and other relief material standing at Kathmandu airport and there is no one to unload them. If logistics are not present, too much help can also become a problem in disaster situations," said another officer.
3368.txt:Bandra residents Madhavi and Dinesh Bhojwani, who went to Nepal on last Tuesday, have been stuck there. And to add to the troubles of this couple, Dinesh, who suffers from cervical spondylosis, has been experiencing severe health issues for the past few days. He has been running temperature and there seems to be no respite for him because Kathmandu airport has a queue of people stretching upto atleast two kilometres. Each of them is waiting to get back home.
3370.txt:'We are facing huge logistical difficulties. As well as roads being closed, aftershocks have prevented planes from landing at Kathmandu airport.'
3372.txt:At Kathmandu airport, flights arrived with emergency aid and helicopters brought in both foreign trekkers and local villagers from quake-struck areas. Helicopters chartered by trekking companies reached the Langtang area, about 60 kilometers (40 miles) north of Kathmandu, a popular area for trekking — a key contributor to the country's economy.
3372.txt:At the Kathmandu airport, foreign planes from India, the U.S., China, Malaysia, Pakistan, Israel that brought aid and rescue personnel lined up on the crowded tarmac.
3372.txt:Coming out of the airport with dry blood on his face and legs, Min Bahadur Raut said he got a ride on a helicopter from a neighbor who had chartered a flight for his mother. He was not able to move his left arm.
3374.txt:A crush at the main international airport, where relief material and rescue teams are flying in while thousands of residents are trying to leave, has slowed the flow of aid.
3375.txt:Disbursement of international aid has been slow, partly because aftershocks have sporadically closed the airport.
3377.txt:With the help of a guide, the Brockbanks were able to get transportation to Nepal’s airport, and fly to India, where they are now waiting to return to the U.S.
3380.txt:Lucette Dillon took this video on a go pro while in a taxi on the way to the airport in Kathmandu showing the aftermath of the powerful earthquake that struck Nepal and the surrounding regions.
3387.txt:However, such “in kind” collections must be pre-approved by the Coordination and Contact Team at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu before being sent, the advice adds.
3387.txt:“The huge flow of in-kind donations leaves airports under enormous pressure, which hinders in turn the arrival of emergency assistance. Sometimes priority goes for medical teams, field hospitals or water and sanitation systems which is the case right now in Nepal. Therefore, assistance should be prioritized or unwanted items will block the flow of basic ones.”
338.txt:Within hours, an Indian Air Force C-130 landed at at Katmandu’s airport with 39 disaster relief workers and 3.5 metric tons of supplies, according to a spokesman for the Ministry of Defense.
338.txt:Dhany Osman, an editor with The Straits Times of Singapore said he was at Katmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport when the quake struck.
3390.txt:Those aftershocks as well as limited capacity at Kathmandu's airport reportedly has hampered the arrival of aircraft bringing aid to the region.
3392.txt:Foreign countries escalated efforts to get medical equipment, medicine, food, water, blankets, tents and search-and-rescue teams into Nepal, but chaotic scenes at the main international airport slowed the flow of aid.
3395.txt:There is no consolidated list of the relief material that has poured in since Saturday. Officials say information is still being collected to draw up a list. Authorities at the Tribhuvan international airport are working round the clock to accommodate relief flights and allot parking bays to airlines ready to fly out the hundreds stranded.
3396.txt:: A total of 104 Malaysians who were stranded in Nepal after the devastating 7.9-magnitude quake hit the mountainous province have safely landed at the Royal Malaysian Air Force base in Subang at approximately 12.30am early Wednesday.The RMAF Charlie 130 flight which departed Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport early Tuesday ferried 104 Malaysians including 16 crew members.MINDEF officials have confirmed that among the Malaysians who were on board included two toddlers and an eight-month-old pregnant mother.The RMAF Charlie 130 vessel was the first flight to bring home Malaysians stranded in Nepal following the devastating earthquake last Saturday. They were received by the families, relatives and friends.The massive earthquake struck Pokhara, a city near Kathmandu, at 2.56pm (Malaysian time), killing more than 5,000 and injuring more than 8,000 people.The earthquake has been described as the worst in Nepal's history for the past 81 years.Several aftershocks have since also occurred.The Counsellor/Charge d'Affaires of the Malaysian Embassy in Kathmandu, Fadli Adilah in a Bernama report on Monday said the 85 passengers include 13 participants of the 7 Continents Exploration Club's (KE7B) Annapurna high altitude expedition programme.
3399.txt:However, congestion at Kathmandu's airport has caused delays, with Indian TV reporting that an Indian relief flight was forced to turn back.
33.txt:Netanyahu sent his condolences to the people of Nepal from the people of Israel and said Israel would help in any way possible. Liberman said earlier on Saturday that a plane would be sent to evacuate Israelis from Nepal as soon as the airport in Katmandu, currently shut down, reopens.Yaron Meir, Israel's ambassador to Nepal, told Liberman that his staff members are safe and working from the yard of the embassy's compound due to damage sustained to the building. He said that since roads are blocked, vehicular movement is impossible.The embassy's staff is circling the area by foot, according to Meir, extending help to the injured while searching of Israelis in the area."We are considering dispatching rescue forces from New Delhi to Katmandu, as we did with the Nepali avalanche in October," the Foreign Ministry said in a statement.
3402.txt:18/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese girl injured in the earthquake holds the hand of her mother inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
3402.txt:19/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese victims of the earthquake lie inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
3402.txt:24/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded man on a makeshift stretcher to a waiting Indian air force helicopter as they evacuate victims of the earthquake from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
3402.txt:25/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person carries a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance after the child and mother were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu
3402.txt:26/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person walks carrying a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance as the mother follows after they were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu
3406.txt:Four IL-76 planes from the People's Liberation Army (PLA) Air Force left an airport in Chengdu, capital city of Sichuan Province for Nepal's capital Kathmandu on Tuesday, carrying around 90 tonnes of humanitarian materials, military sources said.The materials, including tents, blankets and power generators, are the first batch of 180 tonnes of goods offered by the Chinese government, according to a statement of the Ministry of National Defense Tuesday.The Chinese government has pledged to provide the 20-million-yuan (about 3.4 million US dollars) worth of humanitarian aid to Nepal which was struck by an 8.1-magnitude earthquake on Saturday.The rest would be transported in the following days, according to the statement.The Ilyushin IL-76 transport aircraft is a multi-purpose four-engine aircraft widely used in Europe, Asia and Africa. It is commonly used in transport, for airborne refueling or as a command center.Saturday's earthquake has killed at least 4,264 people, injuring 7,000 others in Nepal, according to the National Emergency Operation Center of Nepal's Home Ministry on Tuesday.
3410.txt:It has also been reported that there is anger slowly spreading throughout the Nepalese population over their own government’s limited involvement in the aid. Airports and other government buildings have not been equipped with enough facilities to provide sanitation, food, or medical supplies to the Nepalese people, according to this report from Al Jazeera.
3414.txt:A man sits with a child on his lap as victims of Saturday’s earthquake, wait for ambulances after being evacuated at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal on April 27, 2015.
3416.txt:Jaishankar said opening of roads will help faster movement of relief materials as there were logistical constraints concerning flights due to pressure on the airport in Kathmandu.
3419.txt:The Dutch group left from Kathmandu on Monday on regular flights. Also on board are two Britons, a Belgian, two Germans, a Ugandan and one person from Kyrgyzstan, NU reports. The group has arrived safely at Schiphol airport. "I come from Kathmandu and we have seen violent things", one of the returnees told NOS at the airport. "We were in a restaurant, luckily in a good area where we could immediately lie down on the ground. Fortunately not close to buildings, because so many collapsed. It was really intense."
3419.txt:A military aircraft carrying mainly elderly people, pregnant women and people with small children is also expected to land at Eindhoven Airport on Tuesday. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, these are people who live in Kathmandu. The Ministry and SOS International have also deployed another aircraft for 80 people, which is currently on it's way to Nepal from Jordan. The plane is expected to arrive in Nepal during the course of Tuesday morning, from where it fly to Rotterdam The Hague Airport. It is expected to arrive in Rotterdam on Wednesday. This flight is also primarily attended for vulnerable group such as children and the elderly.
3421.txt:But the lack of space at the country's only international airport was hampering efforts to bring in relief by air.
3421.txt:Japan's International Co-operation Agency said a disaster relief team was making a third attempt on Tuesday to enter Kathmandu, after twice being turned away from a crowded airport on Monday.
3423.txt:Under the auspices of International Medical Corps, I’ve just joined a team that will be growing to help meet the needs of Nepal following the recent devastating earthquake. It wasn’t easy to fly in, because the airport has a single main runway and isn’t large enough to park many large aircraft, and there is a great number of relief flights from all around the globe bringing people, equipment, and supplies. Our commercial flight was largely occupied by responders, including an official Japanese search and rescue team, as well as concerned and courageous people of Nepal returning to be with their families. Yesterday our plane originated out of Bangkok, was diverted twice to India, and then returned to Bangkok. We were fortunate to get an early start today and reach Kathmandu.
3423.txt:Having been to Kathmandu a few times on my way to the majestic Himalaya mountains to trek, including to Everest Base Camp (which was struck by a devastating avalanche caused by the earthquake), it was very sad to see the collapse of buildings – indeed large portions of certain neighborhoods – as well as ancient temples and iconic structures. Soon after leaving the airport, I witnessed resilient citizens sheltering under tents because their homes are destroyed or structurally unstable endure a fierce rainstorm with sheets of hail, causing some streets to flood and emphasizing the risk for spread of infectious disease, such as cholera, in the aftermath of the earthquake.
3425.txt:“If the government was doing its job, we wouldn’t have to be here,” said Koju. “All the relief is still at the airport. The government haven’t done anything.”
3425.txt:In Kathmandu, aid workers at the WFP’s new humanitarian staging area – a depot-cum-command centre that was, fortunately, completed a month ago – are trying to take some of the strain off Tribhuvan international airport.
3425.txt:With their own offices yet to receive the structural all-clear, WFP staff are working from their new base two minutes’ drive from the airport.
3425.txt:“It’s not coming in as fast as everyone would like because there’s a lot of congestion and people are having trouble landing at Tribhuvan, which is a small airport after all. There roads are still being cleared to a lot of the affected areas, but we’re able to move to some of them.”
3430.txt:The Himalayan nation’s government was almost invisible in the quake’s immediate aftermath, critics said, although it had stepped up its response by Monday when Home Minister Bam Dev Gautam personally supervised aid delivery at the country’s main airport.
343.txt:http://thepioneer.com.pk/four-aircraft-with-nepal-relief-supplies-ready-at-islamabad-airport-pm-house/
343.txt:Four aircraft with Nepal relief supplies ready at Islamabad airport: PM House
343.txt:ISLAMABAD: The Prime Minister House spokesman said in a statement on Saturday evening that on Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif’s orders, four aircraft with relief supplies for quake-affected Nepal are ready at Islamabad airport.
343.txt:The spokesman went on to say that as soon as clearance is given from Kathmandu airport, the planes will take off from Islamabad.
3440.txt:Relief aid destined for Nepal, as a part of the UAE’s humanitarian aid to earthquakevictims, is loaded onto a Boeing 747 at Dubai International Airport.
3440.txt:The first Boeing 747 took off this morning from Dubai heading to Kathmandu airport with the first 90 metric tonnes of aid. The total volume of shipment that will be sent through the air bridge will exceed 450 metric tonnes and include aid items consisting of emergency health kits, water purification units, water storage and distribution units, blankets, tents, tarpaulin, jerry cans, buckets, plastic sheets, solar lamps, ICT equipment and food items.
3440.txt:Ambassador Hamad Al Shamsi, IHC board member, took the lead in supervising the operations run at the airport, and said, “The UAE leaders and people are well known for their humanitarian commitment and, through the IHC, the biggest global logistics hub, we continue to lend a hand to people facing crises around the world”.
3451.txt:Help from the international community, non-governmental organizations (NGO), and various other companies has started pouring in after the Kathmandu International Airport in Nepal was reopened after the catastrophic earthquake of magnitude 7.8 on Saturday, April 25. Help in terms of volunteers, medical staff, vaccines, and amenities to the country is being routed from an airport in the neighboring city in India and from their by road to the Nepalese city of Pokhara. The region was one of the worst affected due to its close proximity to the epicenter and the population of the city with respect to inhabitants and tourists.
3451.txt:Though logistical difficulties remain, the reopening of the airport has come as a huge sigh of relief. However, access to the exact epicenter is still cut off and agencies are trying to use helicopters to reach the location to save those who are stranded and are in immediate need of humanitarian help. Governments of many countries around the world have come forward to provide help and support to Nepal in this moment of crisis after the earthquake which has led to 3200 confirmed deaths till now and thousands injured and missing.
3452.txt:At Dubai International Airport, workers loaded crates packed with relief aid into a Boeing 747 destined for Nepal, just over a four-hour flight away.
3452.txt:The chief executive of IHC, Shaima al-Zarooni, said relief workers have faced difficulties in delivering needed aid such as temporary shelters, satellite communications gear and medical equipment because of closures and congestion at the airport in Kathmandu.
3452.txt:At the Kathmandu airport, helicopters chartered by trekking brought in both foreign trekkers and local Nepalese villagers from remote areas where they were stranded after Saturday's earthquake that killed nearly 4,400 people.
3454.txt:Nepalese officials scrambled to get aid from the main airport to people left homeless and hungry by a devastating earthquake two days earlier, while thousands tired of waiting left the capital Kathmandu for the surrounding plains.
3454.txt:Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport was hobbled by many employees not showing up for work, people trying to get out, and a series of aftershocks which forced it to close several times since the quake.
3455.txt:In this April 27, 2015 photo, a man grieves over the body of his relative recovered at the collapsed Sitapyla church in Kathmandu, Nepal. A strong earthquake shook Nepal’s capital and the densely populated Kathmandu Valley on Saturday. The catastrophe has overwhelmed Nepalâ™s government, with the challenge expected to worsen as the death toll climbs as rescuers reach vulnerable mountain villages that were hit hard. (AP Photo/Wally Santana) In this April 27, 2015 photo, a man grieves over the body of his relative recovered at the collapsed Sitapyla church in Kathmandu, Nepal. A strong earthquake shook Nepal’s capital and the densely populated Kathmandu Valley on Saturday. The catastrophe has overwhelmed Nepalâ™s government, with the challenge expected to worsen as the death toll climbs as rescuers reach vulnerable mountain villages that were hit hard. (AP Photo/Wally Santana) A Nepalese woman sits inside in a tent with her child as people stay on open ground from fears of earthquake tremors in Kathmandu, Nepal, Monday, April 27, 2015. A strong magnitude earthquake shook Nepalâ™s capital and the densely populated Kathmandu valley on Saturday devastating the region and leaving tens of thousands shell-shocked and sleeping in streets. (AP Photo/Niranjan Shrestha) The shadow of an Indian Air Force aircraft carrying relief material is cast on an area where tents are setup by residents in Kathmandu, Nepal, Monday, April 27, 2015. Shelter, fuel, food, medicine, power, news, workers â” Nepal’s earthquake-hit capital was short on everything Monday as its people searched for lost loved ones, sorted through rubble for their belongings and struggled to provide for their families’ needs. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri) A child injured in Saturdayâ™s earthquake, is carried by a Nepalese soldier after being evacuated as they wait to disembark from an Indian Air Force helicopter at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, Monday, April 27, 2015. The death toll from Nepal’s earthquake is expected to rise depended largely on the condition of vulnerable mountain villages that rescue workers were still struggling to reach two days after the disaster. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri) A man sits with a child on his lap as victims of Saturdayâ™s earthquake, wait for ambulances after being evacuated at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, Monday, April 27, 2015. The death toll from Nepal’s earthquake is expected to rise depended largely on the condition of vulnerable mountain villages that rescue workers were still struggling to reach two days after the disaster. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri) Buy AP Photo Reprints
3457.txt:Highly vulnerable Australians will be given priority on the flights but the scheduling of the first flight remains in the hands of officials at Kathmandu airport and the local government.
3457.txt:The airport in the Nepalese capital is open but there are lengthy delays and some scheduled flights have been affected.
3457.txt:"The timing and frequency of the flights will be subject to capacity constraints at Kathmandu airport and approval by the Nepalese government," Bishop said.
3459.txt:"Anyone carrying a Chinese passport can board, regardless of whether you have a flight ticket," read notices posted at the Kathmandu airport following the quake, described as Nepal's worst in 81 years.
3470.txt:But the effort to get critical support into the landlocked Himalayan nation has ironically been hampered by overwhelming generosity, which has inundated the only international airport.
3470.txt:Tribhuvan International Airport now resembles a military base with planes, helicopters, soldiers and airmen from numerous countries — not all of them on good terms with each other — converging here for a humanitarian cause.
3470.txt:Landing at Tribhuvan, Nepal’s only international airport, at 1,300 meters altitude in the Kathmandu Valley is no easy feat, even in the best of times and weather.
3475.txt:CBS News correspondent Seth Doane reports that, along with rescue teams from around the world, some of those left with serious injuries on Everest were seen arriving Tuesday at the small airport in Kathmandu, Nepal's devastated capital city.
3479.txt:As the plane flew circuits for two hours above Kathmandu’s congested airport, he worried about the security of his family, living 25km east of the city, who were now camping in a field outside their home.
3479.txt:IRIN last saw Prajapti standing on the conveyor belt in a chaotic baggage reclaim hall at Tribhuvan International Airport, shouting out the names he could identify on the pieces of luggage, trying to ease the logjam for a frustrated, milling crowd.
3480.txt:As the plane flew circuits for two hours above Kathmandu’s congested airport, he worried about the security of his family, living 25km east of the city, who were now camping in a field outside their home.
3480.txt:IRIN last saw Prajapti standing on the conveyor belt in a chaotic baggage reclaim hall at Tribhuvan International Airport, shouting out the names he could identify on the pieces of luggage, trying to ease the logjam for a frustrated, milling crowd.
3482.txt:But lack of space at the only international airport was hampering efforts to bring in relief by air.
3485.txt:Planes carrying food, shelter and other supplies have been arriving steadily at Kathmandu's small airport, but the aid distribution process remains fairly chaotic, with Nepalese officials having difficulty directing the flow of goods.
3487.txt:Aid can be blocked when there aren’t enough people on the ground to deliver the supplies, or when a natural disaster has damaged airports or bridges, making it difficult to actually deliver the goods.
3487.txt:Aid can be blocked when there aren’t enough people on the ground to deliver the supplies, or when a natural disaster has damaged airports or bridges, making it difficult to actually deliver the goods.
3494.txt:Nepalese army soldiers wait to arrange relief materials from China following Saturday's earthquake at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 28, 2015. (Xinhua/Pratap Thapa)
3496.txt:Sniffer dog handler Birgit Ostendorf of Germany’s NGO organisation International Search and Rescue (ISAR- Germany) prepares her dog ‘Cooper’ to board their flight to Nepal from Frankfurt airport, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic
3496.txt:Indians fight during a queue for an aircraft back to their country outside Nepal’s Tribhuvan International Airport a day after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic
3496.txt:Tourists gather inside Nepal’s Tribhuvan International Airport a day after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic
3496.txt:Workers of the German Red Cross (DRK) prepare a load of humanitarian aid for victims of the earthquake in Nepal, in front of an aircraft at Schoenefeld airport outside Berlin April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic
3496.txt:Victims of Saturday’s earthquake rest inside an Indian Air Force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic
3496.txt:People wait outside the departure terminal at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015, following the April 25 earthquake. — Reuters pic
3496.txt:International aid has begun arriving in Nepal, but disbursement has been slow, partly because aftershocks have sporadically closed the airport.
3497.txt:At Kathmandu airport, flights arrived with emergency aid and helicopters brought in both foreign trekkers and local villagers from quake-struck areas. Helicopters chartered by trekking companies reached the Langtang area, about 60 kilometers (40 miles) north of Kathmandu, a popular area for trekking — a key contributor to the country’s economy.
3497.txt:Foreign planes from India, the U.S., China, Malaysia, Pakistan and Israel that brought aid and rescue personnel lined up on the crowded tarmac at Kathmandu’s airport.
3497.txt:Coming out of the airport with dried blood on his face and legs, Min Bahadur Raut said he got a ride on a helicopter from a neighbor who had chartered a flight for his mother. He was not able to move his left arm.
3501.txt:Planes carrying food and other supplies have been steadily arriving at Kathmandu’s small airport, but the aid distribution process remains fairly chaotic, with Nepalese officials having difficulty directing the flow of emergency supplies.
3506.txt:As soon as he landed at the Bangkok airport, Koirala saw Modi's tweets on the quake, Nepal's Minister for Foreign Affairs Mahendra Bahadur Pandey said on Tuesday.
3507.txt:As soon as he landed at the Bangkok airport, Koirala saw Modi's tweets on the quake.
350.txt:Most of the area were without power and water Sunday, but with Kathamandu airport reopened, first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. Workers were sending out tents and relief goods in trucks and helicopters, said disaster management official Rameshwar Dangal.
3510.txt:They managed to arrive at the Tribhuvan International Airport in the Nepalese capital of Kathmandu on Sunday, and joined tens of thousands of others who were waiting to leave the country.
3517.txt:"Villagers think the tourists are taking too much of the food," said Amit Rubin, who is based at Kathmandu airport with a team from Magnus International Search & Rescue.
3520.txt:Two C-17 Globemaster aircraft are due to land at Nepal's only international airport in Kathmandu later today.
3523.txt:Villagers wait for relief from an Indian Army helicopter at Uiya in Gorkha district on Wednesday. (AFP) Kathmandu, April 29 (Reuters): Trekkers stranded by an avalanche in Nepal, many of them from Israel, fought for food and for places on rescue helicopters after being denied shelter by residents in the aftermath of an earthquake that killed more than 5,000 people. Up to 250 people were feared missing immediately after an avalanche yesterday hit a village in Langtang, a national park north of the capital Kathmandu. In the event, there were no confirmed deaths or serious injuries. Hundreds of trekkers, many of them cold and hungry, were unable to make it back to safety because roads and paths had been blocked, while some guest houses damaged in Saturday's 7.9 magnitude quake shut their doors to visitors. "We were sitting in our tent when suddenly a boulder of ice fell on it," Israeli trekker Lily Milkovich said. "After a few minutes we found that some of our friends had been buried under the snow. Once we felt we were safe to help them, we started pulling them out," she said by telephone after being flown out to a pick-up point for bringing evacuees by bus back to Kathmandu. Milkovich said there had been fights to get on the choppers, but tensions eased when it became clear that there would be enough flights to bring everyone to safety. One Israeli rescuer described the situation in Langtang as "tense", and said there had been fights over scarce food between stranded trekkers and Nepali villagers. "Villagers think the tourists are taking too much of the food," said Amit Rubin, who is based at Kathmandu airport with a team from Magnus International Search and Rescue. District governor Uddhav Bhattarai, directing operations from the pick-up point, said 100 people were airlifted out this morning with another 125 to come. Nepali and Israeli helicopters were shuttling out trekkers, and an Israeli team was combing through villages to find those unaccounted for. Many tourists don't register with embassies when they visit Nepal, making it hard to know how many may be missing. Yehonathan Lebel, the deputy chief of mission at the Israeli embassy in Kathmandu, said bringing the trekkers back to safety was a top priority.
3525.txt:"They're kind of stranded," she said. "They need assistance to get to the airport."
352.txt:Much of the country was without power and water Sunday, although the first deliveries of aid started with the reopening of the Kathmandu airport Sunday. Flights carrying supplies began arriving from nearby India, China and Pakistan.
352.txt:Nepal’s Prime Minister Sushil Koirala was unable to reach his stricken country from a summit meeting in Jarkarta while the Kathmandu airport was shut down.
3533.txt:Volunteer teams to provide logistics support at Tribhuvan Kathmandu International Airport to assist with relief efforts following the devastating earthquake
3533.txt:India: Deutsche Post DHL (DPDHL) Group, the world´s leading logistics provider, has deployed their Disaster Response Team (DRT) in Kathmandu, Nepal, following the massive 7.8-magnitude earthquake that has claimed thousands of lives to date in addition to those being severely injured. The international aid community is now gearing up to fly in urgently needed goods like technical equipment, water and food. DPDHL Group’s DRT will provide logistics support to help manage the incoming international aid and handle the goods at Tribhuvan Kathmandu International Airport for further distribution by local and international organizations to those in need.
3533.txt:Frank Appel, CEO of Deutsche Post DHL Group, said: “The massive scale of destruction from the Nepal earthquake has hugely crippled infrastructure and damaged roads and local airports, posing a great logistical challenge towards relief efforts. It’s a race against time to rescue those still captured in the debris as well as those in urgent need for critical assistance and amenities like medical help, food and water. The sudden influx of relief goods at Kathmandu airport challenges the local capacities to distribute these goods in a timely manner to reach beneficiaries. This is the specific logistics support that our DHL Disaster Response Team will provide at the airport. Our team comprises highly trained volunteers who provide logistical expertise to help coordinate the relief aid at the airport for further distribution to the victims in the speediest manner possible.”
3533.txt:Chris Weeks, DHL Director for Humanitarian Affairs, said: “In the aftermath of a disaster airports can become bottlenecks that delay the distribution of emergency relief supplies. In these situations, logistics expertise can make a huge difference in coordinating the incoming supplies, and so save lives by ensuring a swift and organized handling of all aid. However, there is a high level of competency and preparedness in Nepal to deal with the aftermath as we had jointly conducted a “Get Airports Ready for Disaster” (GARD) program with local Nepalese authorities and the United Nations Development Program in 2010.”
3533.txt:The GARD program was conducted in 2010 at five airports – TIA (Kathmandu), Nepalganj, Biratnagar, Simara and Pokhara.
3533.txt:the programs “Get Airports Ready for Disaster” (GARD) and natural disaster response via the Disaster Response Teams (DRTs). In a partnership with the United Nations since 2005, Deutsche Post DHL Group provides the UN with access to its core competence in logistics, its global network and the know-how of its employees free of charge. To date, GARD was implemented jointly with the United Nations Development Program to more than 25 local airports in countries like Armenia, Bangladesh, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Indonesia, Jordan, Lebanon, Nepal, Panama, Peru, the Philippines, Turkey and Sri Lanka. In cooperation with UNOCHA, DPDHL Group also established a global network of Disaster Response Teams to support airports in case of a natural disaster. The DRT network consists of over 400 trained DHL volunteers, who can be deployed within 72 hours. Since 2005, the DRTs have been deployed over 30 times worldwide, with the most recent deployment to Vanuatu following the destruction caused by Cyclone Pam in March 2015.
3534.txt:media_camera Kathmandu airport. Picture: Nathan Edwards
355.txt:#Quake #Update With KTM airport open now, Air India will resume its KTM operations from tomorrow, to/from DEL & CCU. (1/2) — Air India (@airindiain) April 25, 2015
355.txt:"Kathmandu Airport is shut. We are in crisis response mode," IndiGo president Aditya Ghosh said. "In this sort of situation, one can't predict when the operations would be resumed. Our top priority right now is safety of our staff and passengers," he said.
3564.txt:9 members of the rescue team, carrying 508 kilograms of equipment, departed from Xiamen and headed to Nepal via the green channel opened by the Xiamen airport. The rescue team is also carrying medicine with a total value of RMB 100,000 to help the earthquake victims.
35.txt:Based on the information they provide, Israel on Sunday will send one plane with a Magen David Adom team and another with a joint IDF and Foreign Ministry mission, as well as a field hospital.Those Israelis wanting to leave Nepal will be able to return on those planes. Among those expected to be rescued are 26 babies born to surrogate Nepalese women and their Israeli parents. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu sent a message to his Nepalese counterpart Sushil Koirala.“Israel feels the pain of the disaster that struck your country. The state of Israel will make available emergency, rescue and medical assistance. The first such team left already tonight. We will help look for those and treat the wounded. On behalf of the citizens of Israel, I send our condolences to the families of the victims and wish a speedy recovery to the wounded. The state of Israel and its citizens stands by your side in this moment,” Netanyahu said.President Reuven Rivlin said, “Our thoughts and hearts go out to the people of Nepal dealing with this awful disaster, and with our loved ones who are in distress. The State of Israel is reaching out to help the search and rescue of the many victims.”As of press time, some 250 Israelis were unaccounted for. Foreign Ministry spokesman Emmanuel Nahshon said the absence of phone service in the aftermath of the quake made it difficult to locate Israelis known to be in the country and cautioned against assuming that those unaccounted for were in danger.The Foreign Ministry has opened a hotline – 02-5303155 – for those looking for friends and relatives. In addition, a public page was created privately on Facebook where people have posted pictures of Israelis who have yet to be located.Netanyahu on Saturday held telephone consultations with Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman and Defense Minister Moshe Ya’alon.Liberman also spoke with the Embassy of Israel in Nepal, whose staff and those Israelis who made it there have been advised to stay outdoors due to ongoing fears of aftershocks.On Saturday night, about 170 Israelis were camped out in tents in the embassy’s garden – some strumming guitars and others cooking lentils, according to Yehonathan Lebel, deputy chief of mission at the embassy.“We are all a bit shaken here,” he told The Jerusalem Post over the phone from a car where he was charging his cell phone. “We went out and we started offering the Israelis the option to come to the embassy because there is still a warning about aftershocks,” Lebel continued. “I have no intention of going to my apartment to sleep tonight.”As soon as the earthquake struck, just before noon, Lebel and his colleagues rushed to the embassy to open a situation room in cooperation with a parallel office in Jerusalem. While the embassy does not have exact numbers of how many Israelis are in the country, Lebel said there are likely several hundred – fewer than last season – as a result of October’s tragic avalanche.Regarding the number of Israelis potentially missing, Lebel explained that it is still impossible to present a clear figure, due to the fact that during the September-October and March- April hiking seasons many people simply set out trekking without means to contact them. The inability to contact trekkers on long hikes, unfortunately, is normal and, therefore, makes missing persons estimates irrelevant, he added.Nevertheless, Lebel said the number of Israelis in Nepal has been boosted by the approximately 26 surrogate babies recently born to Israeli parents. Of the babies, about 17 were spending Saturday night with their parents in the embassy garden and remained the first priority of the embassy officials, he said.“We are working with the ministry in Jerusalem hopefully to bring them back to Israel as soon as possible,” he said.Most of central Kathmandu and its main tourist area – Thamel – remained relatively intact, although some buildings did collapse, Lebel explained. “When you go a little bit outside [the center], you see more neighborhoods that have been affected.”Conditions were also relatively stable in Pokhara, a western district of Nepal popular among Israeli trekkers, Lebel continued.“That being said, there might be Israelis who went on treks and were caught in avalanches, but we don’t have any concrete information,” he said.“Today was a bit of a mess. This differs greatly from what happened in October because it was a focused, local event,” Lebel added. “It’s much harder to get the army or police on the phone.”At about 11:15 p.m. local time, Chabad Rabbi Chezki Lifshitz and his wife Chani posted on Facebook about the day’s events, writing that “at the hour of 11:55 a.m., the earth in Kathmandu trembled.”“For a long time, Nepal was shaken violently and for more long hours there was no quiet,” they wrote. “We are still experiencing aftershocks here. The wounds are still open, the sights here are severe and there are many, many casualties.”Hundreds of Israelis had gathered at the Chabad House in the morning, and the rabbi and his wife said they are taking part in the effort to locate missing Israelis in Nepal – in Pokhara, in the villages and the mountains. Satellite instruments the Chabad House distributes among mountain climbers have helped them maintain a connection with many of the trekkers out in the mountains, the Lifshitzes wrote.“Most of our efforts are now concentrated on managing lists of Israelis who have lost contact,” they said. “We also invited our frightened Nepalese neighbors who have lost their homes to come eat with us and families in need of lodging are also welcome into the compound.”Back at the Israeli Embassy garden, officials provided the campers with a power cord to charge their phones, bags of lentils, pots and water, as they settled in for the night. By Sunday, people should be able to return indoors and commercial airports are expected to open at which time Israeli teams from the New Delhi and Bangkok embassies are also expected to arrive, Lebel said.“There’s kind of a feeling of a commune a little bit,” Lebel added. “People have gone through a very long and stressful day.
360.txt:Following the quake, Kathmandu’s international airport was shut down.
3615.txt:Also, various countries and other organizations have pledged their aid to the victims of the disaster. The only international airport in Nepal has been experiencing traffic, causing delays in receiving international aid.
3615.txt:“The challenge now is getting the airport up and running,” said Kipp Branch, Senior medical supply officer for the MAP International charity. “The world is trying to respond, which is a good thing, and the systems and networks tend to work a little bit slower due to the traffic volume coming in.”
3618.txt:One passenger named Lim Kun Jie told CNA that many of them have to camp on the grounds at the airport as "they were afraid of aftershocks."
3618.txt:"Tons of people were waiting, queuing up all the way outside the airport even, just to get into the airport to get a ticket out of Kathmandu as soon as they can," Lim said.
3618.txt:Many has said that they have learned to be patient in such a situation as the plane had intended to land on Monday, but were unable to make it because of airport congestion and bad weather.
3618.txt:Minister in the Prime Minister's Office Masagos Zulkifli, who went to the airport to welcome the returning Singaporeans, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has got in touch with most Singaporeans in Nepal, but there are another five who are still unable to reach at the moment. He added that the government will give another 150,000 Singapore dollars (112,782 U.S. dollars) donation given the serious situation in Nepal.
361.txt:Several charities were assembling disaster teams — based on the assumption that sanitation, shelter and medical help are urgently required — but the most convenient pathway into Nepal was not available because the international airport in Kathmandu was shut down by the quake.
3629.txt:The first Boeing 747 took off this morning from Dubai heading to Kathmandu airport with the first 90 metric tonnes of aid. The total volume of shipment that shall be sent through the air bridge will exceed 450 metric tonnes and include aid items consisting of emergency health kits, water purification units, water storage and distribution units, blankets, tents, tarpaulin, jerry cans, buckets, plastic sheets, solar lamps, ICT equipment and food items.
3629.txt:Ambassador Hamad Al Shamsi, IHC board member, took the lead in supervising the operations run at the airport, and said, "The UAE leaders and people are well known for their humanitarian commitment and through the IHC, the biggest global logistics hub, we continue to lend a hand to people facing crises around the world".
3631.txt:Dr Watkins said the good news was that the international airport opened on Sunday so some supplies were arriving from India.
3637.txt:Thirty-seven people, including 20 Bahrainis, were reunited with family members who were anxiously waiting at the arrivals terminal of Bahrain International Airport holding flowers and gifts, said a report in the Gulf Daily News (GDN), our sister publication.
3637.txt:“We were among a group of 22 people, including Bahrainis, Jordanians and Indians, who travelled to Nepal for hiking and to attend a musical festival,” the 27-year-old told the GDN at the airport.
3637.txt:One of the parents waiting at the airport told the GDN he lost contact with his 27-year-old son for 24 hours.
3638.txt:The Belgian humanitarian mission that left Brussels Sunday for Nepal to help the thousands of victims of the earthquake has left New Delhi for Kathmandu after a delay on Tuesday afternoon.The Belgian team B-FAST that was to leave New Delhi to Kathmandu lost its landing slot for Nepal, the team leader of the Belgian relief mission, Major Gilles du Bois d'Aische, said.But eventually the Belgian Airbus carrying 43 Belgian volunteers received permission to take off, according to Belgian public broadcaster RTBF.The Belgian flight was grounded at New Delhi airport next to a dozen Russian, Spanish and Dutch aircraft filled with humanitarian supplies. It was feared that the Belgian mission would have to return to Brussels.The offer of help is much greater than the capacity of Kathmandu airport can facilitate, with aircraft circling the airport waiting to land.Some 90 people are waiting in Kathmandu to be repatriated to Belgium.
3639.txt:According to CBC reporter Margaret Evans in Nepal, a Canadian Forces transport plane carrying relief supplies and a disaster-assistance team landed Wednesday afternoon at the Kathmandu airport.
363.txt:When asked about international flights bound for Kathmandu being diverted to India, he said the flights are being diverted to Delhi and some other airports close to the Nepal capital.
3644.txt:Seventeen of the 22 members, including Brett Starke and roommate Matt Carson, touched down at the Ottawa airport Wednesday afternoon and were greeted by hugs, tears and kisses from family and friends.
3651.txt:Shankar Koirala, Nepal’s joint secretary of the office of the prime minister and the council of ministers, warmly welcomed the Chinese team at the airport, describing their arrival as timely assistance.
3651.txt:Officers and soldiers prepare to board an IL-76 aircraft at an airport before departing for earthquake-stricken Nepal in Kunming, capital of southwest China's Yunnan Province, April 27, 2015.
3654.txt:A: The Chinese side stated its solemn position on the Chairman's Statement of the 26th ASEAN Summit yesterday. For quite a long time, a few ASEAN countries such as the Philippines and Vietnam have been carrying out large-scale construction on China's maritime features of Nansha illegally seized by them. Unlawful massive reclamation is underway, airport and other fixed facilities being built and offensive weapons including missiles being deployed. For instance, the Philippines has built and expanded an airport on China's Zhongye Dao of Nansha, and built a dock and other facilities on the island. It has also built so-called tourism facilities on Zhongye Dao, Mahuan Dao, Feixin Dao and other islands and reefs. What's more, the Philippines has attempted to occupy the Ren'ai Jiao by reinforcing its illegally "grounded" military vessel on it. Vietnam has also carried out large-scale reclamation on over 20 maritime features of China's Nansha Islands, and simultaneously built on them a considerable amount of fixed facilities such as harbor basins, airstrip, missile bases, office buildings, barracks, hotels and lighthouses. It has also built many stilted houses and helipads on Wan'an Tan, Xiwei Tan, Lizhun Tan and Aonan Ansha. China is gravely concerned about and firmly opposed to the aforementioned illegal activities, urging the countries concerned to immediately terminate all words and actions that infringe upon China's sovereignty and rights and interests.
3655.txt:The airport in Kathmandu is overstretched as international aid keeps pouring into the country, but the Chinese government says they are coordinating to ensure all the supplies get delivered.
3657.txt:A Czech plane carrying a trauma team and ten tonnes of material aid to Nepal, which left Prague for Kathmandu in the early hours of Wednesday, was diverted to Delhi. According to Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek, the overloaded airport in Kathmandu will be ready to take the flight at around midnight on Wednesday. The team, which includes nine doctors, 10 nurses and 14 fire officers, is expected to spend two weeks in Nepal, which was struck by a devastating earthquake on Saturday. Czech citizens who were in the country when the disaster struck are due to fly back to Prague on the return flight.
3658.txt:The first team left Halim Perdanakusuma Airport in East Jakarta this morning, while a second group would leave at 4 p.m.
3659.txt:"The team will depart today from Husein Sastranegara Airport in Bandung," spokesperson for the Kolaboraksi Sinergi for Solidarity, Hani Sumarno, said here on Wednesday.
3660.txt:Indian Red Cross district chairman P Jaganmohan Rao said that every person should feel that donation of blood was a social obligation. He said that the 1,000 units of blood would be sent to Nepal from Visakhapatnam airport.
3662.txt:“When we reached the airport to collect the food items from Pakistan, we found packets of ready-to-eat meals, including packets of ‘beef masala’. There were other food items too,” Dr Balwinder Singh told Mail Today.
3662.txt:UK aid team in security breach at Delhi airport
3662.txt:It has come to light that a rescue team which arrived from the United Kingdom on Monday for operations in earthquake-hit Nepal, violated the safety norms of the Delhi IGI Airport.
3662.txt:The team allegedly waited in front of an aircraft at the ‘apron area’ of the airport for about six hours before they could fly to Kathmandu.
3662.txt:Members of the British rescue team headed to Nepal posted photos of themselves waiting at IGI Airport on Twitter
3662.txt:An immigration official said the British group comprised 15-20 personnel from the UK Fire and Rescue team. They reached Delhi IGI Airport around 5.30pm on Monday. But due to weather and other clearance issues, they were asked to wait at the airport.
3662.txt:“The team didn’t have proper clearances. India keeps a watch on every unit and aircraft flying to Kathmandu through Delhi. Airport officials asked them to wait but instead of going to the terminal building, these rescue team members waited in front of the nosewheel of an aircraft,” a senior airport official told Mail Today.
3662.txt:“Even then, the rescue team members didn’t go inside the airport. No security official asked them to move from there. They remained there for more than three hours,” a senior immigration official said.
3662.txt:“They had equipment which needed to be checked by various agencies. Also, they didn’t take proper permission due to which they were asked to wait. But, they ignored all security rules and stayed there in front of an aircraft,” a senior airport official said.
3667.txt:The first group to arrive in Spain was greeted by family members at the airbase. Some boarded two buses en route to downtown Madrid and Adolfo Suárez Madrid-Barajas Airport.
3668.txt:International aid has begun arriving in Nepal, but disbursement has been slow, partly because aftershocks have sporadically closed the airport.
3687.txt:An state-funded El Al flight carrying 229 Israelis landed at Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion International Airport early Tuesday afternoon.
3689.txt:Patrick Asraf embraces his son's comrade upon arrival at Ben-Gurion Airport (Photo: Motti Michi)
3689.txt:"We won the battle but we lost the war," said Or's father, Patrick, said upon arrival at Ben-Gurion Airport together with his son's friends from the Egoz unit.
3689.txt:Patrick Asraf and the IDF soldiers traveled to Nepal last week in order to repatriate Or, who fought alongside his comrades in the Gaza war last year. Or's mother had been photographed standing at the airport holding a banner asking Israelis returning from the country for information about her son.
3689.txt:Patrick embraced his son's friends at the airport and thanked them for traveling to the end of the earth to bring their friend home.
3696.txt:The security industry has been quick to react to this emergency, and the range of responses underlines how closely security and emergency professionals can work when there is an overwhelming need. Dogs trained to detect survivors amid debris, thermal imaging sensors, conventional CCTV cameras, drones and situational awareness technology are all on the ground or being transported from Gorkha, the nearest airport to the quake epicentre. But the environment (in what is already among the world's poorest countries) will be one of scant electric power and few fixed communication systems.
3696.txt:Any intervention from Nepal's neighbor, China, will attract political analysis – much of it cynical – but it should be noted that a 62-person Chinese search and rescue team with sniffer dogs (German shepherds) is on the ground in the Kathmandu Valley, which is the location of the latest tremor as I write. A 70-strong Japanese rescue team (primarily police officers and with four dogs - two Labradors and two German shepherds) has been delayed in its arrival after the miniscule airports in the Kathmandu region became overwhelmed with up to 14 planes circling at any one time. Some of planes have had to divert in order to refuel.
3698.txt:Kathmandu's single-runway airport was "overcrowded" as teams and relief materials arrived and survivors, including tourists, tried to get out.
3698.txt:Great Britain said it was sending 30 additional medics, and heavy lifting equipment to ease congestion at Kathmandu's airport.
369.txt:The outpouring of humanitarian aid comes as passenger travel to the area has largely been halted. Kathmandu's airport is slated to be closed to commercial flights for two days.
36.txt:Charities assembled disaster teams based on the assumption that sanitation, shelter and medical help are urgently required but the most convenient pathway into Nepal — one of the world's poorest countries — was not available because the international airport in Kathmandu was shut down.
3700.txt:“We have been to six significant destruction sites around [Kathmandu] and in the city itself. Unfortunately, we have not found survivors,” said Col. Yoram Laredo, head of the Home Front Command’s battalions and in charge of Israel’s mercy mission to Nepal.Nepali Prime Minister Sushil Koirala paid a visit to the field hospital to thank Israel for its assistance.“There are more than 200 medical nurses and other logistic staff here,” Ambassador to Nepal Yaron Mayer said.The IDF said the hospital has the capacity to treat 200 patients a day. It has an independent infrastructure and includes 50 tons of medical equipment. It has a range of wards and 125 personnel who include trained and experienced medical staff, the IDF added.For the second day in a row, Israeli rescuers continued to use helicopters rented from India and China to retrieve dozens of Israeli trekkers who were stranded in remote areas after the earthquake damaged all roads and paths leading to safety. The Nepalese army also made some of its helicopters available. But they had yet to reach dozens of other trekkers, and planned to fly out to them on Thursday. In one case, in the region of Mount Everest, the trekkers were hiking out to meet them part-way, Foreign Ministry spokesman Paul Hirschson said.Bringing them back to safety is a top priority, said Yehonathan Lebel, deputy chief of mission at the Israeli Embassy in Kathmandu.“It is very cold up there, people don’t have food and they are getting really desperate.”Israel is also searching for Or Asraf, 22, the last of its citizens still unaccounted for. He is believed to have been in the area of the Frozen Lakes in Langtang, which sustained damage. The Foreign Ministry has made contact with the other 249 Israelis who initially had been unaccounted for.A number of Israelis were able to make contact with their families via satellite phones while they waited for help.The death toll from Saturday’s quake is at least 5,000. It could reach 10,000.Bad weather and aftershocks have hampered rescue efforts, particularly in the Langtang, Mount Everest, Annapurna and Pokhara areas, where the Israeli trekkers were located.Resources have been scarce since little aid has reached those areas; in some instances, violence broke out between international trekkers, including Israelis, and the local population, which also has needed assistance.One Israeli rescuer described the situation in Langtang as “tense,” and said there had been fights between villagers and stranded trekkers over scarce food.“Villagers think the tourists are taking too much of the food,” said Amit Rubin, who is based at Kathmandu airport with a team from Magnus International Search & Rescue. Teams from the Harrel and Phoenix insurance companies also assisted in flying Israelis to safety.Trekker Lily Milkovich described the moment the quake struck.“We were sitting in our tent when suddenly a boulder of ice fell on it,” she said by telephone after being flown out to a pick-up point for bringing evacuees by bus back to Kathmandu.“After a few minutes, we found that some of our friends had been buried under the snow. Once we felt we were safe to help them, we started pulling them out,” she said.Milkovich added that there had been fights to get on the helicopters, although tensions eased when it became clear there would be sufficient flights to bring everyone to safety.US President Barack Obama spoke with Nepali Prime Minister Koirala on Wednesday about American efforts to help the nation recover from the earthquake, the White House said.Obama told Koirala the US would do all it could to help the people of Nepal, White House spokesman Josh Earnest told reporters.The United Nations estimates that eight million people have been affected, with at least two million in need of tents, water, food and medicines over the next three months.“The timing of the intervention remains of the essence,” the UN resident and humanitarian coordinator for Nepal, Jamie McGoldrick, said in a statement. “Although I am heartened and encouraged by the progress of the response to date, efforts need to be maintained and stepped up to ensure vital assistance reaches all the affected, especially those in the remote areas.”McGoldrick’s appeal came as anger mounted over delays in delivering local aid four days after the disaster.In Kathmandu, about 200 people protested outside parliament, asking for more buses to go to their villages and hasten the distribution of aid. In Sangachowk village, about three hours by road from the capital, scores of angry villagers blocked the road with tires to stop aid trucks.Government officials admit that aid has been slow to come. Broken bridges and roads blocked by landslides have made it difficult to reach rural areas closer to the epicenter of the earthquake.Helicopters have been unable to land in some remote mountainous areas, such as the Gorkha district.It was one of the areas worst hit by the quake, with entire hillsides having collapsed, burying villages and making access almost impossible.The UN estimates that 70,000 homes were destroyed and another 530,000 damaged across 39 of Nepal’s 75 districts, forcing many to sleep out in the open or under makeshift tents in cold and damp conditions.“We’re talking about families who now don’t have so much as a tarpaulin to sleep beneath,” Mattias Bryneson, Plan International’s Nepal country director, said in a statement.“Tarpaulins and temporary shelters can save lives. If people, especially children, are exposed to bad weather all day and night, you’ll be damp, wet, dirty and freezing cold – and the spread of illness will exacerbate this humanitarian crisis.”The UN said $415 million was needed to provide 500,000 people with tents or tarpaulins, 1.4 million people with food, and 4.2 million with safe drinking water and toilets.Even before the appeal was launched, foreign countries and aid agencies had offered assistance – from search and rescue teams, sniffer dogs and equipment for heavy lifting, to blankets, dry food rations, mobile hospitals and financial aid.As of Wednesday, the UN Financial Tracking System showed that $48.25m. had been pledged by foreign governments and international aid agencies since the quake struck. Only $22.2m had been delivered.“As the monsoon season approaches, this is likely to become an added logistical challenge in providing humanitarian assistance,” the UN’s McGoldrick said.“Funding is needed immediately to continue the relief operations.”
3702.txt:At the same time, following an initiative of the Latvian embassy, a meeting of European Union member states’ consular officials was held in Deli this Wednesday, 29 April. This meeting was used to coordinate allocation of support to EU citizens in Nepal. Latvian and Polish embassies plan to ask Nepal to provide air transports to carry EU citizens from Namche Bazaar to the nearest airport. This could require several days, as attention is currently focused on providing assistance to people injured in the earthquake.
3702.txt:According to information from Latvian embassy in India, Namche Bazaar is located no more than a two-day walk away from Lukla Airport. It is entirely possible that people will have to wait several days at the airport, as this particular airport is considered one of the most dangerous airports in the world because of rapidly changing weather conditions.
3704.txt:The plane carrying them was the first of two Republic of Singapore Air Force (RSAF) C-130s to arrive back from Kathmandu International Airport at around 12.45am.
3704.txt:The second RSAF plane was understood to have departed the airport at 9pm on Tuesday and will be carrying on board 15 passengers.
3704.txt:When asked, he described the situation at Kathmandu Airport as chaotic, as many people were waiting and even queuing up outside the airport just to buy a ticket to get out of Kathmandu.
3704.txt:"People even camped overnight in the airport grounds itself. It was partly because the airport ground itself is actually (an) open space so many people stayed there as it was the safest place to be," he said.
3704.txt:Plans to evacuate Singaporeans from quake-hit Nepal were delayed when three RSAF C-130 planes could not land at Kathmandu airport yesterday because of congestion. Two of the RSAF planes were diverted to Kolkata in India. The third C-130, which left Singapore on Sunday night, was re-routed to the Indian city of Patna. All three planes arrived in Kathmandu on Tuesday.
3705.txt:At Kathmandu airport, flights arrived with emergency aid and helicopters brought in both foreign trekkers and local villagers from quake-struck areas. Helicopters chartered by trekking companies reached the Langtang area, about 60 kilometers (40 miles) north of Kathmandu, a popular area for trekking — a key contributor to the country's economy.
3705.txt:Foreign planes from India, the U.S., China, Malaysia, Pakistan and Israel that brought aid and rescue personnel lined up on the crowded tarmac at Kathmandu's airport.
3705.txt:Coming out of the airport with dried blood on his face and legs, Min Bahadur Raut said he got a ride on a helicopter from a neighbor who had chartered a flight for his mother. He was not able to move his left arm.
3706.txt:supplied Joe Tiller (left) and Roger Marwick at Nelson Airport last Wednesday about to embark on their "bucket list trip" to Nepal.
3706.txt:Joe Tiller and Roger Marwick left Nelson Airport last week ready to embark on an adventure of a lifetime, but while the pair were eating lunch at a lodge in Nepal on Saturday, things took an extreme turn.
3706.txt:Arriving back at Lukla, rated as having the most dangerous airport in the world, Marwick said many trekkers were milling about desperate to leave. He estimated about 500 to 1000 people trying to get out of the area.
3706.txt:The airport in Lukla was full of action with helicopters carrying the dead and seriously injured throughout the day.
3710.txt:Also, three fire personnel from the Pasadena Fire Department are expected to leave at 11:50 p.m. Tuesday from the Los Angeles International Airport headed to Nepal, said Lisa Derderian of the Pasadena Fire Department.
3710.txt:Firefighter Matt Caffey, Capt. Tim Okimura and Engineer Dave Marquez will take a 14-hour, 50-minute aboard China Southern Airlines flight number 328 from the Los Angeles International Airport’s Tom Bradley International Terminal, Derderian said.
3716.txt:. Kathmandu's single-runway international airport
3719.txt:“Nepal has gotten help from other countries like America, China, India,” Giri said. “Supplies are coming in to the airport in Kathmandu. But they are not bringing it here.”
3732.txt:Planes carrying food and other supplies have been steadily arriving at Kathmandu’s small airport, but the aid distribution process remains fairly chaotic, with Nepalese officials having difficulty directing the flow of emergency supplies.
3733.txt:After completing the World Challenge expedition he flew to Khumjung Airport where he landed on Tuesday.
3735.txt:International aid has begun arriving in Nepal, but disbursement has been slow, partly because aftershocks have sporadically closed the airport.
3738.txt:Britain in sending additional 30 medics to treat the injured and heavy lifting equipment to move aid supplies off aircraft and ease congestion at Kathmandu airport.
3738.txt:The group says aid workers are hindered by a congested airport in capital Kathmandu, impassable and destroyed roads which have left several remote villages still largely cut off.
373.txt:The earthquake hit just before noon, local time. It was relatively close to the surface, centered at a spot 80 kilometers northwest of Kathmandu. Historic structures, including the iconic 19th century tower, the Dharara tower collapsed. Buildings and walls around the capital turned into a pile of rubble. Nepalese media reported that many people were trapped there. The country’s only international airport was shut down.
3741.txt:He said an RAF C-17 carrying a team of Gurkha engineers and a chartered Boeing 767 carrying rescue teams and supplies were awaiting landing slots at Kathmandu airport.
3757.txt:As Chand made the appeal, however, the cargo site at the airport in the Nepali capital illustrated the bigger problem on the ground: a cripplingly slow response by the government.
3757.txt:Piles of tents that China sent have been lying at the airport since Monday, soldiers stationed there said. The tents were unloaded from the plane only Wednesday. Worse still, no one at the site knew when they would be sent to the far-flung villages where the temblor displaced hundreds of thousands of people.
3757.txt:Aid workers said many of their cargo planes are still awaiting permission to fly to Kathmandu’s beleaguered airport. The planes that have landed are waiting for their cargo to be unloaded. In many instances, the aid teams are not promptly told where to go or whom to work with.
3760.txt:The rapid response “Mother and Child” team deployed by the Swiss Humanitarian Aid Unit comprises eight medical personnel and two logistics experts. They will focus on assisting women in childbirth and performing surgery on children. The team left Bern airport on the government’s official jet to ensure they are accorded priority clearance in Kathmandu.
3762.txt:India was the first to send the relief and rescue materials. But Indian officials say thousands of kgs of medicines, dry food items, tents and more are accumulating at the Tribhuvan International Airport.
376.txt:Mobile services in the Nepalese capital have been hit, and the international airport was shut down after the quake. Incoming flights were diverted to airports in neighboring countries. The airport reopened late in the afternoon, according to a tweet from the editor of the Nepali Times.
3777.txt:/ photo courtesy Yvonne Martinez Area residents Kevin Krogh, Kat Heldman, Oscar Olea and Brigida Martinez smiled in an airport as their headed to Nepal for a long-planned Himalayan climb. As of Monday, the foursome remained stranded in their base camp following a 7.8 earthquake Saturday. Area residents Kevin Krogh, Kat Heldman, Oscar Olea and Brigida Martinez smiled in an airport as their headed to Nepal for a long-planned Himalayan climb. As of Monday, the foursome remained stranded in their base camp following a 7.8 earthquake Saturday. (/ photo courtesy Yvonne Martinez)
3779.txt:A UK aid flight carrying 120 British nationals has now left the Nepalese capital Kathmandu, Mr Hammond said. The flight is expected to land at Stansted Airport in the early hours of the morning.
3782.txt:An El Al plane carrying 216 Israelis from Nepal landed at Ben Gurion Airport early Tuesday afternoon. Among the passengers were 15 surrogate-born children caught up in the quake.
3783.txt:Accompanied by a Sherpa guide, the couple were trekking from Namche ­Bazaar - a village in the Solukhumbu district in north-eastern Nepal - to Lukla, home to the Tenzing-Hillary Airport and the place where most people start the climb to the Mount Everest base camp.
3783.txt:They had been planning to catch a plane from the tiny airport to Kathmandu on Monday.
3783.txt:There are daily flights between Lukla and Kathmandu during daylight hours, and in good weather. Lukla was rated the most dangerous airport in the world in 2010.
3783.txt:“I have also sent e-mails to all the charter companies that fly from Lukla Airport, to see if they have any information, but lots of my mails have come back, so I think the infrastructure for communication is probably down.”
3785.txt:She said the group would wait for a flight to Kathmandu from Lukla Airport, which Sir Edmund Hillary helped to build.
3787.txt:"They're kind of stranded," she said. "They need assistance to get to the airport."
378.txt:Foreign Minister Datuk Seri Anifah Aman told reporters tonight that there was no access to enter Nepal as the Tribhuvan International airport in Kathmandu was closed for now.
378.txt:"When the airport is re-opened, we can go in," he said after the joint welcoming dinner for Asean foreign ministers which Deputy Prime Minister Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin attended.
3799.txt:"The 15 relief camps, equipped with adequate facilities, have been put up by the SSB at Raxaul town in Bihar bordering Nepal to evacuate Indians as well as people of other countries and those will continue so long as they are needed," he told reporters at the Patna airport after meeting Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to review rescue, relief and rehabilitation works.
379.txt:It is believed the group had just landed in the country and were close to the airport in Kathmandu when the earthquake occured.
37.txt:The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country's only international airport, in a potential blow to relief efforts.
37.txt:The airport's general manager, Birendra Prasad Shrestha, said it would remain closed "for safety reasons" at least until later in the afternoon.
3802.txt:HISAR: A native of Hisar safely returned to his hometown from the earthquake-ravaged Nepal along with his wife and children. Narendra Bansal, who had been into trading clothes in Nepal for the past one year, returned to India after being airlifted by the Indian Air Force.Talking to TOI, Bansal said, "I was on way to Pashupatinath temple for paying obeisance on my bike when I felt the ground shaking. I saw people running out of their houses shouting �bhukamp aya bhaago' (run, its an earthquake). I stopped my bike and ran to a flat surface and started thinking of my family. When I reached home, I found no one inside the house. My wife Rinku Rani, my son Aman, 8, and daughter Ambika, 5, were sitting in a park along with other families."Bansal said he and his family spent two days in the open in Nepal ate only noodles. "I am staying with my family in Nepal from the last year. After earthquake, everyone was moving towards Nepal's airport. I also reached there on April 26 at about 10 am. An IAF plane rescued us."
3803.txt:(MENAFN - The Peninsula) The death toll from Nepal's devastating earthquake could reach 10,000, the prime minister said on Tuesday, as residents frustrated by the government's slow response used their bare hands to dig for signs of their loved ones."The government is doing all it can for rescue and relief on a war footing," Prime Minister Sushil Koirala told Reuters. "It is a challenge and a very difficult hour for Nepal."International aid has finally begun arriving in the Himalayan nation of 28 million people, three days after Saturday's 7.9 magnitude quake, but disbursement is slow. According to the home (interior) ministry, the confirmed death toll stands at 4,349, with more than 7,000 injured."The death toll could go up to 10,000 because information from remote villages hit by the earthquake is yet to come in," Koirala said.The United Nations said 8 million people were affected by the quake and that 1.4 million people were in need of food.Nepal's most deadly quake in 81 years also triggered a huge avalanche on Mount Everest that killed at least 17 climbers and guides, including four foreigners, the worst single disaster on the world's highest peak.All the climbers who had been stranded at camps high up on Everest had been flown by helicopters to safety, mountaineers reported on Tuesday.A series of aftershocks, severe damage from the quake, creaking infrastructure and a lack of funds have slowed rescue efforts in the impoverished, mountainous country sandwiched between India and China. In the capital Kathmandu, youths and relatives of victims were digging into the ruins of destroyed buildings and landmarks."Waiting for help is more torturous than doing this ourselves," said Pradip Subba, searching for the bodies of his brother and sister-in-law in the debris of Kathmandu's historic Dharahara tower. The 19th century minaret collapsed on Saturday as weekend sightseers clambered up its spiral stairs."Our hands are the only machine right now," said the 27-year-old, part of a group of locals pulling out bricks and blocks of concrete with cloth masks over their faces to ward off the stench of rotting bodies. "There is just no one from the government or the army to help us."Scores of people were killed in the collapse of the tower.Elsewhere in the capital's ancient Durbar Square, groups of young men cleared rubble from around an ancient temple, using pickaxes, shovels and their bare hands. A few policemen stood by, watching.Heavy rain later on Tuesday slowed down the rescue work.The head of neighboring India's National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), one of the first foreign organizations to arrive in Nepal to help in the search and rescue effort, said finding survivors and the bodies of the dead would take time.NDRF Director General O.P. Singh said heavy equipment could not fit through many of the narrow streets of Kathmandu."You have to remove all this rubble, so that will take a lot of time ... I think it's going to take weeks," he told Indian television channel NDTV late on Monday.SLEPT IN THE OPENMany people across Nepal slept in the open for a third night, their homes either flattened or threatened by tremors that spread more fear among a traumatized population.In Kathmandu, as elsewhere, thousands are sleeping on pavements, roads and in parks, many under makeshift tents.Hospitals are full to overflowing, while water, food and power are scarce, raising fears of waterborne diseases.There were some signs of normality on Tuesday, however, with fruit vendors setting up stalls on major roads and public buses back in operation.But with aid slow to reach many of the most vulnerable, some Nepalis were critical of the government."The government has not done anything for us," said Anil Giri, who was with about 20 volunteers looking for two of his friends presumed buried under rubble. "We are clearing the debris ourselves with our bare hands."Officials acknowledged they were overwhelmed by the scale of the disaster."The big challenge is relief," said Chief Secretary Leela Mani Paudel, Nepal's top bureaucrat."We urge foreign countries to give us special relief materials and medical teams. We are really desperate for more foreign expertise to pull through this crisis."The situation is worse in remote rural areas. Highways have been blocked by landslides, and many villages and communities are without water and electricity, villagers surviving on salvaged food and with no outside help.While aid has begun arriving in the capital, including food, medical supplies, tents and dogs trained for rescue efforts, the authorities are struggling to deliver relief further afield.A crush at the main international airport, where relief material and rescue teams are flying in while thousands of residents are trying to leave, has slowed the flow of aid.India and China were among the first contributors to an international effort to support Nepal's stretched resources.On Monday, the United States announced an additional $9 million in aid for Nepal, bringing total U.S. disaster funding to $10 million.U.S. and Australian military transport planes carrying search-and-rescue personnel and supplies were headed to Nepal.
3805.txt:Planes carrying food, shelter and other supplies have been arriving steadily at Kathmandu's small airport, but the aid distribution process remains fairly chaotic, with Nepalese officials having difficulty directing the flow of goods.
3810.txt:An IL-76 aircraft from the Chinese military arrives at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, carrying the first batch of relief materials from China. [Photo: Xinhua]
3813.txt:Planes carrying food and other supplies have been steadily arriving at Kathmandu's small airport, but the aid distribution remains fairly chaotic, with Nepalese officials having difficulty directing the flow of emergency supplies.
3813.txt:Amid an influx of foreign aid and rescue teams into Nepal, a Canadian Forces transport plane carrying relief supplies and an advance crew from a disaster-assistance team landed late Wednesday afternoon at Kathmandu airport . The plane then carried Canadians and others out of the country to New Delhi.
3815.txt:Dr. Rai, who has been working in Kathmandu on earthquake victims, advised us that the initial recovery efforts are currently being managed but to remain ready for a possible second phase of needed surgical help. He has assured us the acute needs are well under control but that a sustained and greatly needed second phase would be forthcoming. In addition, the international organizing agents are currently advising international medical teams not to enter Nepal at this time. Many volunteers are trapped at the airport and unable to get out due to the destruction of roads and clog of personnel attempting to open the roads leading to the airport. As happened in Haiti, very well-intentioned volunteers can add to the already burdened and overwhelmed system in place, which is why ISAPS-LEAP Surgical Relief Teams© have worked so hard with other leading international disaster relief programs, the World Health Organization, worldwide ministries of health, and various local partners in affected areas to optimally know when and how to provide the greatest level of surgical help.
3819.txt:Marharjan says Nepal is a landlocked country. So when it comes to relief supplies, "it has to be trucked in from India. And some of the roads are not safe right now." Nepal's single international airport, in Katmandu, is closed at the moment.
3822.txt:The UK’s rescue and relief efforts in Nepal will be boosted with trauma medics, heavy lifting equipment to move aid supplies at Kathmandu airport, and humanitarian experts to help coordinate the international response, International Development Secretary Justine Greening announced today.
3822.txt:•airfield handling equipment including two forklift trucks. This will facilitate the swift movement of aid supplies off aircraft and help to ease congestion at Kathmandu airport
3822.txt:“ The UK is playing a leading role in response to the Nepal earthquake. “ We are boosting the British humanitarian effort by deploying more medics to treat the injured and delivering supplies that will help get aid through, including heavy lifting equipment to ensure supplies at Kathmandu airport can reach those in need.”
3829.txt:Jonathan Herranz, 27, from Extremadura, told Spanish daily 20 minutos that "it was the worst experience in the world" and spoke of being "trapped" in Kathmandu airport for 50 hours without food and water.
3829.txt:"I ran for 45 minutes in shock towards the airport," said Jonathan, whose taxi had crashed following the earthquake, "you could see heads, arms, rivers of blood and people who were very worried," he added, still in shock after the disaster.
3829.txt:The evacuated group of Spaniards spoke of the terrible conditions in Kathmandu airport, as hundreds of tourists await help with scarce food and water provisions - bottles of water are reportedly being sold for ten dollars each.
3832.txt:Thirty-seven people, including 20 Bahrainis, were reunited with family members who were anxiously waiting at the arrivals terminal of Bahrain International Airport holding flowers and gifts.
3832.txt:Bahraini Yaseen Assiri, who was in Kathmandu when the earthquake struck, described being in the midst of the devastation. 'We were among a group of 22 people, including Bahrainis, Jordanians and Indians, who travelled to Nepal for hiking and to attend a musical festival,' the 27-year-old told the GDN at the airport.
3832.txt:One of the parents waiting at the airport told the GDN he lost contact with his 27-year-old son for 24 hours.
3834.txt:Asraf’s parents were standing in the entrance hall in Ben Gurion Airport on Tuesday afternoon as 216 Israelis returned from quake-ravaged Nepal, appealing to the fresh arrivals for any information about her son’s whereabouts.
3834.txt:His family last heard from him on Friday, and none of those arriving at the airport had any information to offer his mother, who carried a large banner reading “Who has seen Or Asraf?” and stood amid the tearful embraces and joyful reunions of the returning Israelis.
3834.txt:Planes carrying food and other supplies have been steadily arriving at Kathmandu’s small airport, but the aid distribution process remains fairly chaotic, with Nepalese officials having difficulty directing the flow of emergency supplies.
3837.txt:A Nepalese resident injured in the earthquake waits in an ambulance after being rescued from a village at Pokhara airport yesterday. Pic/AFP
3843.txt:Aid agencies are being forced to turn to India to ensure their supplies reach the hardest-hit areas in Nepal as the capital's sole airport continues to face a logjam, as the pressure to deliver rises.
3843.txt:"We're going through India because we're hoping that the land route will be better than getting things bottled-up at the airport," Christy Delafield, communication officer for the NGO, told IBTimes UK from Kathmandu on Thursday (30 April).
3843.txt:The Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu typically handles 40 flights per day, but in the aftermath of the earthquake, that number has nearly doubled, as transportation options have been damaged or disabled.
3843.txt:Her flight circled Tribhuvan International Airport for about three hours.
3843.txt:"The airports are overwhelmed," she added.
3843.txt:"We don't have any advance notification of rescue flight movements from abroad, of how many and which countries and how many aircraft. That is one problem," Tek Nath Sitaula, the airport's deputy director, told The Straits Times on Tuesday. "We have only nine parking bays."
3843.txt:A US traveller, desperate to leave Kathmandu, Casey Schreiner, spent two and a half days at Kathmandu airport, awaiting for an early KTM flight to Los Angeles, via Kuala Lumpur.
3843.txt:"Right now, airlines are just trying to get people out to functional airports. KTM is a total nightmare s**tshow – nobody is in charge of anything and there's zero information, but for the most part people have been kind and patient."
384.txt:"The C130J, carrying the stranded Indians, has landed at Palam a short while ago," the spokesperson tweeted, referring to the aircraft's arrival at the air base adjacent to the Indira Gandhi International Airport here.
384.txt:The spokesperson had earlier said that the Indian Air Force's C-130J would land at 10.20 p.m. at Palam airport with 55 passengers, including four infants.
384.txt:"The situation there is scary. People are afraid," said noted journalist M.J. Akbar, one of the Indian passengers on board the rescue aircraft, on landing at the airport.
3850.txt:In addition, four IL-76 planes from the People's Liberation Army (PLA) Air Force left an airport in Chengdu, capital city of Sichuan Province, for Kathmandu on Tuesday, carrying around 90 tons of humanitarian materials, military sources said.
3854.txt:Nepal’s Airport Provides Shelter, Relief and Treatment After Earthquake
3856.txt:Asraf's parents, Orit and Patrick, had greeted Israeli travelers who returned to Israel on Tuesday at Ben Gurion airport in hopes some of them could shed light into their son's whereabouts; however, only two travelers had seen him before the quake struck.
3856.txt:An El Al plane carrying 229 Israelis who were stranded in earthquake-hit Nepal landed at Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion International Airport early Tuesday afternoon. Among the passengers were 15 newborns, including three premature babies.
3856.txt:Or Asraf, 22, also recently out of the army, has not spoken to his parents since Friday. His mother arrived at the airport in Tel Aviv anyway, hoping he had made it onto the El Al rescue flight. "He went on a trek near Langtang a few hours before the quake on Saturday, and we haven't heard from him since," she said.
3856.txt:Orit Asraf, mother of Or, at the airport with a sign asking if anyone had seen her son
3858.txt:Planes carrying basic necessities have been steadily arriving at Kathmandu's small airport, but the aid distribution process remains difficult, and as Caritas Internationalis Secretary General, Michel Roy told Linda Bordoni, the sheer magnitude of the earthquake brings with it major consequences…
3858.txt:He says that Katmandu has one small airport which can only receive a limited number of planes so most aid is coming in by road from India.
385.txt:LUCKNOW: Following the powerful 7.9 magnitude earthquake which struck Nepal on Saturday, flight services to Kathmandu were cancelled or put on hold because of closure of airport. "Since Kathmandu airport was closed following the earthquake this morning, the Kathmandu flight was diverted to Lucknow and would return to Mumbai. Consequently, return flight from Kathmandu stands cancelled," Jet Airways said in a statement.Confirming the development, district magistrate of Lucknow Raj Shekhar said, "Jet Airways 266, which operates from Mumbai to Kathmandu was diverted to Lucknow at 1.23pm. There were as many as 177 passengers on board. The flight finally departed for Mumbai at 2.41 pm." The DM added that only one flight has been diverted. Officials of the police and district administration are at the airport and are in constant touch with airport and airline authorities concerned, ensuring safety of passengers.Jet Airways also said it cancelled services on the New Delhi-Kathamndu-New Delhi sector, adding that it is monitoring closely the situation and updating its passenger on regular basis. "We operate three flights to Kathmandu. While the morning flight from Delhi operated as per the schedule, the two other services, one from Delhi and another from Kolkata are on hold as of now. We will operate them as soon as we get a nod from the aviation authorities in Kathmandu," an Air India spokesperson said.Budget carrier SpiceJet and IndiGo have also decided not to operate till they get clearance from the Nepalese government.
3862.txt:BEIJING - Four IL-76 planes from the People's Liberation Army (PLA) Air Force left an airport in Chengdu, the capital city of Sichuan province for Nepal's capital Kathmandu on Tuesday, carrying around 90 tons of humanitarian materials, military sources said.
3863.txt:Disbursement of international aid has been slow, partly because aftershocks have sporadically closed the airport.
3864.txt:media_camera Safe ... Fremantle mates Jalada Wilson, 18, Raoul Poncin, 19 and 18-year-old Rin Hutcheson at Perth Airport before they flew to Nepal. Picture: Facebook
3864.txt:media_camera Devastation ... World Vision Australia CEO Tim Costello arrives at Kathmandu International airport on the aftermath of Saturday’s 7.8 magnitude earthquake. Picture: Nathan Edwards
3864.txt:At Dubai International Airport, workers loaded crates packed with relief aid into a Boeing 747 destined for Nepal, just over a four-hour flight away.
3864.txt:media_camera Help ... relief aid destined for Nepal, as a part of the UAE's humanitarian aid to earthquake victims, is loaded onto a Boeing 747 at Dubai International Airport. Picture: AP Photo/Kamran Jebreili
3864.txt:The chief executive of IHC, Shaima al-Zarooni, said relief workers have faced difficulties in delivering needed aid such as temporary shelters, satellite communications gear and medical equipment because of closures and congestion at the airport in Kathmandu.
3866.txt:The flight is expected to arrive at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, on April 27, according to Warren.
3868.txt:Thai Airways International (THAI) flight TG3199 successfully landed at Kathmandu's airport after THAI flight TG319 was forced to return to Bangkok early yesterday morning after being unable to land at...
3868.txt:Flight TG3199 carrying rescue personnel and journalists departed Suvarnabhumi airport at 9.15am and landed in Nepal at 11.44am Tuesday.
3868.txt:Flight TG319 flight departed Suvarnabhumi airport at 10.15am on Monday with 295 people on board.
3868.txt:Commercial flights were kept waiting. The flight eventually returned to Suvarnabhumi airport about 2am Tuesday.
3873.txt:The timing and frequency of the flights will be subject to capacity constraints at Kathmandu airport and approval by the Nepalese Government.
3873.txt:I encourage Australians still in Nepal to continue to pursue all available commercial flight options to leave the country. The international airport in Kathmandu is open, although scheduled flights have been affected and there are lengthy delays.
3874.txt:But it still shocked me when I heard yesterday that it took a Save the Children colleague in Nepal four hours to walk from the airport to the Save the Children offices in Kathmandu, a walk that took me just five minutes just two months earlier.
3877.txt:All the residents of Choraut who had returned till Wednesday afternoon did so by spending money out of pocket. “Private buses are charging anywhere between Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 2,500 for the trip to the border here. They fear they will be caught if the authorities raid, so they are not even issuing tickets,” said Manoj Das (29). He was empty-handed. “I ran away from home when the earthquake struck and never went back. On Tuesday morning, I went to the airport but turned back after seeing a long queue,” he said.
3885.txt:After learning of McLeod's coordinates, a team of firefighters from Burnaby, B.C., which is camped out with the Canadian Medical Assistance Team at the E.O.D. Holding Unit at Kathmandu Airport, reached out to contacts at the Nepalese Army Base near Briddim and asked for their assistance.
3886.txt:Even as airport congestion due to quake relief operations is causing flight delays to and from Nepal's capital Kathmandu, flight operations between India and its Himalayan neighbour is heading towards normalcy again, operators said on Wednesday.
3886.txt:Private airlines companies Jet Airways and IndiGo said congestion in Kathmandu airport is resulting in flight delays and work was in progress to take on the challenge.
3886.txt:"Due to relief efforts in Kathmandu, there is a resultant congestion at Kathmandu airport, especially with regard to parking bays," an official with Jet Airways told IANS.
3886.txt:An official of IndiGo, which is operating special rescue flights in addition to the scheduled departures, told IANS in a mail: "Fuel shortage and long delays due to congestion at Kathmandu airport is hampering flight operations."
3891.txt:When they got to the airport, the aftershocks continued, triggering chaotic scenes.
38.txt:Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who was attending a summit in Jakarta, tried to rush back home but made it as far as Bangkok where his connecting flight to Kathmandu was cancelled because the capital’s international airport was shut down for commercial flights.
3901.txt:Planes carrying food and other supplies have been steadily arriving at Kathmandu's small airport, but the aid distribution process remains fairly chaotic, with Nepalese officials having difficulty directing the flow of emergency supplies.
3903.txt:Teams of international rescuers and aid workers arrived by the planeful at Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport, but the weather, the influx of help and the small airport’s lack of parking bays caused backups. Ten aircraft were stuck waiting on the tarmac in New Delhi at one point during the day.
3907.txt:Jamie McGoldrick, the U.N. resident coordinator for Nepal, told a news conference Tuesday that bringing in relief materials has been difficult because Kathmandu's international airport, which has just one runway and space for only a limited number of aircraft to park, is log jammed.
3908.txt:Mrs Roberts said Kathmandu airport was packed with thousands of people trying to leave Nepal.
3908.txt:"It was chaos at the airport," she said.
3908.txt:The Mundaring local said after waiting 30 hours at Kathmandu airport, she fought her way into the departure lounge and begged to be put on a flight.
3908.txt:"The timing and frequency of the flights will be subject to capacity constraints at Kathmandu airport and approval by the Nepalese Government, " it read.
3909.txt:They were met with cheers, garlands and long embraces by parents and loved ones as they walked out of Arrivals at Terminal 2 of Dubai International Airport.
3914.txt:But lack of space at the only international airport was hampering efforts to bring in relief by air.
3919.txt:The rapid response “Mother and Child” team deployed by the Swiss Humanitarian Aid Unit comprises eight medical personnel and two logistics experts. They will focus on assisting women in childbirth and performing surgery on children. The team left Bern airport on the government’s official jet to ensure they are accorded priority clearance in Kathmandu.
391.txt:Following the quake, Kathmandu's international airport was shut down.
3921.txt:SUBANG: It was a fear-filled few days for Malaysians staying in Nepal after the magnitude 7.8 earthquake struck on Saturday.One hundred and four of them - tourists and embassy staff - landed at the Subang base on a RMAF C-130 Hercules plane at about 12.30am Wednesday after being trapped for three days in Nepal."There were still tremors every hour even right before we left," said V. Sheila, 30, a staff of the Malaysian Embassy in Kathmandu."There was fear in me and my husband following the earthquake," she said when met after her plane landed at Subang.Sheila said the streets were filled with bodies and people slept by the roadside because they either lost their homes or were too afraid to go indoors should another earthquake strike."We are just happy to be back," said Sheila, who is eight months pregnant with her first baby.The RMAF plane departed Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu at 3.10pm (Malaysian) on Tuesday, made a stop at Calcutta, India before arriving at Subang.Latest reports said casualties from the earthquake could reach over 5,000 with some 10,000 injured.For 27-year-old Syazuani Suab, the thoughts of Kathmandu still lingered on despite arriving here and greeted by relieved family members at the arrival hall.Syazuani said she was in her house when the earthquake hit."Everything shook violently, I could barely stand up straight. Afterwards, I ran out and saw the roads and buildings were completely destroyed. It was chaos," she said.Her husband, who also works for the embassy, had remained there coordinate the departure of other Malaysians."I am happy that my eight-month-old son and I are safe but I am worried for my husband. I hope he is alright," Syazuani said.Rashid Ramli, 33, and a friend endured freezing temperatures at the airport for three days before finally boarding the C-130."It was the longest three days of my life. We couldn't sleep because it was so cold."I started jogging around the airport just to stay warm," he said.Katherine Ong, 35, who was in Nepal with three friends on a hiking trip, survived with the help of locals who pulled them to a shelter when the earthquake hit."We were walking around the city and sightseeing when the ground started moving and the old buildings started crumbling around us."We ran trying to dodge the rumble and a group of locals pulled us into a hotel lobby," she said.Ong said she and her friends ended up spending the rest of the time in the hotel with about 100 other people as everyone was too afraid to venture to the upper floors for fear that the building would collapse.National Security Council secretary Datuk Mohamed Thajudeen Abdul Wahab said eight children aged below 12 were among the 104 who returned.He said while most of the Malaysians staying in Kathmandu had been evacuated, those from outside the city were starting to arrive looking for a way out of Nepal."We are monitoring the situation and I urge them to register with the embassy officials there," he said.The earthquake's epicentre was between Kathmandu and Pokhara city at 2.56pm (Malaysian time) on Saturday.
3923.txt:In Kathmandu, 1.6 million people have been displaced by the earthquake, the Nepal Red Cross Society said. One camp, near the Tribhuvan International Airport, had become home to more than 40 families, with each tent housing dozens of people, the humanitarian news agency IRIN reported. The government said 16 such camps have been set up in the capital, while nongovernmental organizations say that hundreds exist. In these environments can lurk dangers to public health.
3924.txt:It is that remoteness, too, that compounds a disaster’s repercussions. The airport in the nation’s capital and largest city, Kathmandu, is small and has struggled to handle incoming flights full of aid and rescue workers. In the city of about one million, rickety houses crowd streets that are inaccessible to rescue vehicles or heavy equipment. They’re pleasant to walk through, and the buildings make a certain amount of sense when space is at a premium and citizens are poor, but they quickly turn deadly when the ground beneath them shakes.
3924.txt:Nepal’s limited infrastructure is also hampering aid efforts. “In Kathmandu, a lot of material has arrived. It’s lying in the airport, most of it,” says Tak of Save the Children India. “There are no trucks to carry out any material, because the transportation system is completely shut. Even if the items were to go out, there are no warehouses in Kathmandu or anywhere nearby where such a large quantity of relief materials can be stored. So, just challenges after challenges.”
3925.txt:Among the problems hampering the rescue effort is congestion at Kathmandu’s only airport; due to this some flights carrying aid have had to be turned away.
3926.txt:Four IL-76 planes from the People's Liberation Army (PLA) Air Force left an airport in Chengdu, the capital city of Sichuan province for Nepal's capital Kathmandu on Tuesday, carrying around 90 tons of humanitarian materials, military sources said.[Special coverage]
3927.txt:18/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese girl injured in the earthquake holds the hand of her mother inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
3927.txt:19/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese victims of the earthquake lie inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
3927.txt:24/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded man on a makeshift stretcher to a waiting Indian air force helicopter as they evacuate victims of the earthquake from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
3927.txt:25/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person carries a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance after the child and mother were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu
3927.txt:26/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person walks carrying a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance as the mother follows after they were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu
3937.txt:Meanwhile, a specialist in emergency medicine from the Malteser International assessment team team is treating patients at the German embassy and at the airport in Kathmandu - also taking care of those who have been psychologically affected by the disaster. He reports that 'People are heavily traumatised. Some of them[...]
3938.txt:A separate team of about 70 rescue experts from Japan was dispatched over the weekend, but their flight reportedly could not land at the airport in Kathmandu on Tuesday due to local weather conditions.
3939.txt:Millions of dollars have been donated alongside tons of food and other supplies, but even getting it into the country has proved difficult as Nepal's one international airport, in Kathmandu, has been overwhelmed by the number of planes arriving.
3941.txt:At Kathmandu airport, flights arrived with emergency aid and helicopters brought in both foreign trekkers and local villagers from quake-struck areas.
3941.txt:At the Kathmandu airport, foreign planes from India, the U.S., China, Malaysia, Pakistan, Israel that brought aid and rescue personnel lined up on the crowded tarmac.
3941.txt:Coming out of the airport with dry blood on his face and legs, Min Bahadur Raut said he got a ride on a helicopter from a neighbor who had chartered a flight for his mother. He was not able to move his left arm.
3943.txt:Two days after Nepal’s worst earthquake in 80 years, the official death toll rose to more than 4,000, and humanitarian aid was starting to flow to the capital. Katmandu’s airport had been so overloaded by aid and passenger planes that incoming flights sat for hours on the runway. Nepali expatriates were flying in, desperate to track down family members, and setting off down the airport access road on foot, rolling suitcases behind them. But outside the capital, many of the worst-hit villages in the ridges around Katmandu remain a black hole, surrounded by landslides that make them inaccessible even to the country’s armed forces. The Nepali authorities on Monday began airdropping packages of tarpaulins, dry food and medicine into mountain villages, but an attempt to land helicopters was abandoned, said Brig. Gen. Jagadish Chandra Pokharel, an army spokesman. The government is only gradually getting a grasp of the destruction in these isolated places. It is nearly impossible to identify which villages are most in need, and how many may be dead or injured, said Jeffrey Shannon, director of programs for Mercy Corps in Nepal.
3945.txt:The Nepal-bound Sri Lankan Airlines flight UL 4195 with 97 service personnel onboard left the Colombo Bandaranaike International Airport for Kathmandu Wednesday (29) around 12.30 p.m. the Army said.
3950.txt:Malaysia to open op center at Kathmandu airport: Hishammuddin
3950.txt:ROMPIN, April 29 (Bernama) -- The Malaysian government will open an operation centre for Malaysian aid missions near the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu to channel assistance during the Search and Rescue (SAR) operations in Nepal.
3951.txt:18/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese girl injured in the earthquake holds the hand of her mother inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
3951.txt:19/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese victims of the earthquake lie inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
3951.txt:24/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded man on a makeshift stretcher to a waiting Indian air force helicopter as they evacuate victims of the earthquake from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
3951.txt:25/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person carries a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance after the child and mother were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu
3951.txt:26/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person walks carrying a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance as the mother follows after they were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu
3954.txt:Many foreign search and rescue teams have just arrived, delayed by congestion at Kathmandu's airport.
395.txt:The decision to resume operations was taken following the re-opening of the runway of the Tribhuvan International Airport, which was closed for few hours today due to the earthquake, it said.
3960.txt:http://www.ibtimes.com/bottleneck-kathmandu-airport-delays-aid-strands-passengers-1900599
3960.txt:Bottleneck At Kathmandu Airport Delays Aid, Strands Passengers
3960.txt:But there is only one way all these groups can enter the country, and that’s through Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport. While some scheduled commercial flights resumed into Kathmandu the same day of the earthquake on Saturday, both aftershocks and inadequacies of existing infrastructure at the airport -- which is woefully outdated, understaffed and most importantly, offers just one runway for planes to land and takeoff -- have caused vast delays. The result is a bottleneck that is preventing vitally important aid and resources from reaching victims on the ground.
3960.txt:“There is insufficient space and capacity at the airport,” said Clare Doyle, a spokesperson for the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. “Local authorities, like international responders, are struggling with access problems, lack of fuel and damaged transport infrastructure.”
3960.txt:Ian Petchenik of global flight tracking service Flightradar24 says that his company has been monitoring flight traffic in and out of the airport since the quake hit. On a normal day, the airport takes a handful of large commercial aircraft coming in from Gulf states like Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, Asian nations such as Korea and Malaysia, and a large number of flights from India.
3960.txt:But now, said Petchenik, the airport is not able to handle the demand of commercial and cargo flights clamoring to get in.
3960.txt:“We’re seeing a lot of holding of flights close to the airport,” said Petchenik, who notes that holding times have ranged anywhere from 10 minutes all the way up to two-and-a-half hours.
3960.txt:In addition to just one runway that is used for both takeoffs and landings, there is very little parking space at the airport for planes to park: It can only hold nine medium and wide-body aircraft, in addition to 17 small planes and 13 helicopters.
3960.txt:“As bad as this is, it doesn’t meet our worst fears for a catastrophic event hitting the Kathmandu valley. The worst case would have been if the Nepal road network was inoperable and the airport was not functioning altogether,” said Scheuer. “There are longer delays to get planes processed, but we aren’t seeing it to a degree that we need to despair about aid not coming in.”
3960.txt:That’s evident from the throngs of passengers, including many tourists, who have been stranded at the Kathmandu airport in what many have described as difficult conditions. The passenger terminal has been overwhelmed by people waiting to get out on commercial flights, and the facilities to accommodate them were few and far between.
3960.txt:My friend Casey @modernhiker is stuck at Kathmandu airport after quake. @USEmbassyNepal - any word on getting US citz there help/food/water?
3960.txt:Virginia Guilfoile, an American tourist who was stranded at the airport, described the conditions as “horrendous.”
3960.txt:According to Scheuer, upgrades to the passenger terminal and additions to the number of parking slots at the airport could go a long way in improving conditions. There’s physically no room to add another airport -- or even another runway -- in Kathmandu due to the geography of the area and the fact that the airport is surrounded by urban development.
3960.txt:There has been talk of building another airport in the southern part of the country, but in an extremely impoverished nation like Nepal that would almost certainly require some kind of foreign investment. Recently, the Malaysian government put in a bid to operate Kathmandu’s airport, though that proposal is still in its early stages.
3960.txt:“If there are some people like tourists or businesspeople who have to wait a few days to get out of the country, so be it,” he said. “Others stranded at the airport? They’re inconvenienced, stressed and a bit traumatized. But we need to put that inconvenience in perspective with the real need of the people that have truly been affected by the earthquake and the ability of the partners of Nepal to bring in search teams and aid.”
3961.txt:The first Boeing 747 took off this morning from Dubai heading to Kathmandu Airport with the first 90 metric tonnes of aid. The total volume of shipment that shall be sent through the air bridge will exceed 450 metric tonnes and include aid items consisting of emergency health Kits, water purification units, water storage and distribution units, blankets, tents, tarpaulin, jerry cans, buckets, plastic sheets, solar lamps, ICT equipment and food items.
3961.txt:Ambassador Hamad Al Shamsi, IHC board member took the lead in supervising the operations run at the airport said, "The UAE leaders and people are well known for their humanitarian commitment and through the IHC, the biggest global logistics hub we continue to lend a hand to people facing crises around the world". He added, "The massive destruction Nepal people are facing require immediate action and that's what we count on through the support of the IHC members' and all humanitarian agencies locally and internationally".
3962.txt:The anticipation kept building for Tarun Rao of Folsom. He spent his Tuesday morning at San Francisco International Airport waiting for his wife to return from Nepal.
3962.txt:Kathmandu Airport was packed with people trying to flee the country.
3966.txt:Vincentia's Nicky Cannon was on a plane while aftershocks shook the already crumbling city around Kathmandu airport.
3966.txt:She was thinking about the damaged home of the man who got her to the airport.
3966.txt:Earlier that day it was the generous nature of the Nepalese people that helped Mrs Cannon get to Kathmandu airport amid the chaos of the damaged city.
3966.txt:“The only way I could get to the airport was by a random person on a motorbike.
3966.txt:Evelyn and Maurice Sandstrom from Culburra Beach were on their way to the airport in Nepal when the earthquake struck.
3966.txt:They spent the next two freezing nights sleeping outside the airport.
3966.txt:“They contacted me after the earthquake to say they were leaving for the airport when it hit.
3969.txt:Kolkata, April 29 (IANS) Even as airport congestion due to quake relief operations is causing flight delays to and from Nepal's capital Kathmandu, flight operations between India and its Himalayan neighbour is heading towards normalcy again, operators said on Wednesday.
3969.txt:Private airlines companies Jet Airways and IndiGo said congestion in Kathmandu airport is resulting in flight delays and work was in progress to take on the challenge.
3969.txt:"Due to relief efforts in Kathmandu, there is a resultant congestion at Kathmandu airport, especially with regard to parking bays," an official with Jet Airways told IANS.
3969.txt:An official of IndiGo, which is operating special rescue flights in addition to the scheduled departures, told IANS in a mail: "Fuel shortage and long delays due to congestion at Kathmandu airport is hampering flight operations."
3980.txt:The “Mother and Child” unit is a rapid response medical team deployed by the Swiss Humanitarian Aid Unit. On Tuesday evening, eight medical personnel and two logistics experts will depart from Belp airport for Nepal. The team will travel on the Federal Council’s official jet in cooperation with the Swiss Air Force operated by the Federal Department of Defence, Civil Protection and Sport (DDPS).
3982.txt:But chief of joint operations Vice Admiral David Johnston said Kathmandu's airport was too heavily congested for Australian Defence Force (ADF) aircraft to land in the earthquake-ravaged capital.
3982.txt:"There are only nine parking bays at the airport for aircraft so with the many nations that are now seeking to contribute we've got work to do to synchronise our own arrivals, but I'm expecting that should be able to occur later this week."
3982.txt:"Right from the first entry, and I'm hopeful that may be as early as Thursday, but it is all about airport access for us, those aircraft on their initial entry will be available to take people back out with them," he said.
3990.txt:A UK aid flight carrying 120 British nationals has now left the Nepalese capital Kathmandu, Mr Hammond said. The flight is expected to land at Stansted Airport in the early hours of the morning.
3993.txt:A UK aid flight carrying 120 British nationals has now left the Nepalese capital Kathmandu, Mr Hammond said. The flight is expected to land at Stansted Airport in the early hours of the morning.
3994.txt:A UK aid flight carrying 120 British nationals has now left the Nepalese capital Kathmandu, Mr Hammond said. The flight is expected to land at Stansted Airport in the early hours of the morning.
399.txt:http://www.straitstimes.com:80/news/asia/south-asia/story/nepal-quake-passengers-shove-and-trip-over-each-other-they-flee-airport-t
399.txt:Nepal earthquake: Passengers shove and trip over each other as they flee airport terminal
399.txt:It was noon and my girlfriend and I were at the Tribhuvan International Airport's boarding gate 3 for our flight from Kathmandu to Kuala Lumpur, when the terminal building began to shake.
399.txt:She told me: "My friend and I were waiting in the corridor of the airport leading to the tarmac when we felt the earth rumbling beneath our feet. We could hear cracks forming in the building, followed by people screaming and running out onto the tarmac.
39.txt:The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country's only international airport which was briefly closed.
4005.txt:She was able to connect with her family, nearly four days after the quake, from the airport in Kathmandu while waiting for the next flight to Bangladesh. She was exhausted. She hadn't showered or slept since before the quake.
4008.txt:At the airport in Bali, I ran into Oliver Hua, managing director of Booking.com, APAC, who told me that its Booking Cares initiative was launching programmes aimed at raising funds for Nepal. I am sure Booking.com is not alone in this and other travel companies are all doing their bit. Expedia Asia’s Kathleen Tan told me her staff is working on a programme as well. TravelWeekly has also thrown its support behind Tourism Cares Nepal Recovery Fund.
4009.txt:Also, three fire personnel from the Pasadena Fire Department are expected to leave at 11:50 p.m. today from the Los Angeles International Airport headed to Nepal, said Lisa Derderian of the Pasadena Fire Department.
4009.txt:Firefighter Matt Caffey, Capt. Tim Okimura and Engineer Dave Marquez will take a 14-hour, 50-minute aboard China Southern Airlines flight number 328 from the Los Angeles International Airport’s Tom Bradley International Terminal, Derderian said.
400.txt:The Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu was indefinitely shut on Saturday, resulting in the cancellation of all the eight subsequent return flights from India bound for the capital city.
400.txt:The airport, according to aviation officials in Delhi, was opened in the evening, but only for non-commercial and relief operations. Some airlines like SpiceJet said they had been asked by Indian authorities to keep an aircraft ready to lift supplies from here and bring back stranded passengers.
400.txt:An air force spokesperson said that the Kathmandu airport runway was intact and aircraft could land there. All civilian flights have been cancelled.
4014.txt:Australians at the airport told The Daily Telegraph they would attempt to return to Nepal to offer assistance after their harrowing experiences.
4014.txt:media_camera Survivor ... Alice Forrest from Manly arrives at Kathmandu International airport to board an Australian Defence Force C17 aircraft to Bangkok. Picture: Nathan Edwards
4014.txt:The mother and daughter — who intend to continue travelling through Asia before returning to Australia — had a flight out of Nepal scheduled for Sunday but had to postpone following the aftershocks and heavy delays at the airport.
4014.txt:media_camera Lucky escape ... Toni Perry from Surry Hills leaves Kathmandu International airport to board an Australian Defence Force C17 aircraft to Bangkok. Picture: Nathan Edwards
4019.txt:A 7.9 magnitude earthquake struck Nepal’s Kathmandu valley on Saturday, the death toll has crossed 5000 and is still counting, Nepal PM said the toll may cross 10,000. India instantly took action, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called Nepal’s President Ram Baran Yadav and Prime Minister Sushil Koirala to offer help and support. And four hours after the quake struck, four Indian Air Force planes were on their way to Kathmandu’s Airport with blankets, a mobile “field hospital” and search and rescue teams, India launched operations Maitri.
4019.txt:Ambassador-designate of Nepal,Deep Kumar Upadhyay also expressed concerns on “congestion on Kathmandu airport” that was hampering taking aid to the victims. He thanked India, saying “India took the initiative in relief operations, which other countries followed. We are thankful to the government of India that it was kind enough to extend a ‘blank cheque’ after the shattering earthquake. It has done tremendous work to provide help,”
4021.txt:The DART advance party arrived at Kathmandu airport Wednesday aboard a Canadian military C-17 carrying medical supplies and bottled water.
4023.txt:3 p.m. (0915 GMT) – Relief aid group Oxfam says congestion at Kathmandu airport, blocked roads, fuel shortages and difficult terrain are slowing down the pace of aid delivery.
402.txt:This group states that it has set up a relief hub at Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport to manage common services for the entire humanitarian response to Nepal's disaster, including logistics, information technology, and food transportation.
4030.txt:The Mount Everest south base camp in Nepal is seen a day after a huge earthquake-caused avalanche killed at least 17 people, in this photo courtesy of 6summitschallenge.com taken on April 26, 2015 and released on April 27, 2015. REUTERS/6summitschallenge.com A Nepalese boy talks on a mobile phone near a damaged minaret of a mosque in Kathmandu, Nepal, Tuesday, April 28, 2015. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri) Tourists from Vietnam access the Internet from their mobile phones while waiting for their flight at Tribhuvan International Airport after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar National Disaster Response Force from Indian paramilitary force works to recover the dead bodies from a collapsed house after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar Tourists stand in front of the Departure gate of Tribhuvan International Airport as they wait for their flight after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar An Indian woman cries as she waits to take a flight back to her country after an earthquake at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar A girl cries as her family takes refuge at Tribhuvan International Airport after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar Tourists wait to board their flights at Tribhuvan International Airport after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar Tourists wait to board their flights at Tribhuvan International Airport after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar A tourist from the Netherlands waiting for her flight sleeps in a sleeping bag at Tribhuvan International Airport after returning from the Everest Base in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar An Australian tourist reads a book as she waits for her flight at Tribhuvan International Airport after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar People sleep on the ground in an open area on early morning after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Adnan Abidi An earthquake victim carries her baby on her back as she stands outside her makeshift shelter on open ground in the early hours in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Adnan Abidi A man prays next to rubble of a temple, destroyed in Saturday's earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Adnan Abidi A prayer bell is seen on top of the rubble of a damaged temple after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Adnan Abidi Royal Thai Air Force personnel load food and relief supplies for Nepal at the military airport in Bangkok, Thailand, April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Chaiwat Subprasom Thai Armed Forces medical team walk to a C-130 cargo plane at the military airport in Bangkok, Thailand, April 28, 2015. The Royal Thai Armed Forces sent 67 medical and rescue personnel to assist the earthquake victims in Nepal, according to The Royal Thai Armed Forces authorities. REUTERS/Chaiwat Subprasom Thai Armed Forces rescue team prepare to board a C-130 cargo plane at the military airport in Bangkok, Thailand, April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Chaiwat Subprasom People sleep inside a makeshift shelter on open ground, early morning after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Adnan Abidi In this April 27, 2015 photo, locals watch rescue teams try to remove the body of a 12-year-old girl from a collapsed home in Kathmandu, Nepal. A strong earthquake shook Nepal's capital and the densely populated Kathmandu Valley on Saturday. (AP Photo/Wally Santana) People sit on the rubble of a collapsed building following an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal in this Red Cross handout picture taken on April 27, 2015. REUTERS/IFRC/Palani Mohan/Handout via Reuters In this April 27, 2015 photo, rescue teams search for bodies in the collapsed Sitapyla church in Kathmandu, Nepal. A strong earthquake shook Nepal's capital and the densely populated Kathmandu Valley on Saturday. (AP Photo/Wally Santana) An earthquake victim carries her baby on her back as she stands outside her makeshift shelter on open ground in the early hours in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Adnan Abidi Tents are set up in an open area near multi-storey buildings following an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal in this Red Cross handout picture taken on April 27, 2015. REUTERS/IFRC/Palani Mohan/Handout via Reuters People gather on a road as traffic is affected by a landslide caused by an earthquake, in Kurintar, Nepal April 27, 2015. REUTERS/Athit Perawongmetha The Mount Everest south base camp in Nepal is seen a day after a huge earthquake-caused avalanche killed at least 17 people, in this photo courtesy of 6summitschallenge.com taken on April 26, 2015 and released on April 27, 2015. REUTERS/6summitschallenge.com Video taken from a drone Saturday April 25 2015 shows devastation in the Nepalese capital Kathmandu, caused by Saturday's quake that measured 7.8 on the Richter Scale. (AP Photo / KISHNOR RANA) Nepalese carry the body of their relative killed in the recent earthquake for cremation at the Pashupatinath temple, on the banks of Bagmati river, in Kathmandu, Nepal, Monday, April 27, 2015. (AP Photo / Manish Swarup) Nepalese people affected by the recent earthquake queue to receive food from a non governmental organization, in Kathmandu, Nepal, Monday, April 27, 2015. (AP Photo / Manish Swarup) Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded man on a makeshift stretcher to a waiting Indian air force helicopter as they evacuate victims of Saturdays earthquake from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal, Monday, April 27, 2015. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri)
4034.txt:Planes carrying food and other supplies have been steadily arriving at Kathmandu's small airport, but the aid distribution process remains fairly chaotic, with Nepalese officials having difficulty directing the flow of emergency supplies.
4037.txt:Nepalese military members helps reduce aid of a Boeing 737 Air Force of Indonesian Air Force in Tribhuvan Airport, Kathmandu, Nepal, Thursday (April 30, 2015). (ANTARA/Azi Fitriyanti)
4037.txt:He had tried to enter Nepal on several earlier occasions but failed as the airport in Nepal had been shut down due to damage caused by a 7.9-magnitude quake on April 25.
4037.txt:The Indonesian aircraft is expected to arrive at Tribhuvan Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, at 10:30 a.m. local time.
4041.txt:Interior Minister Milan Chovanec (ČSSD) said the date of the Czech team’s departure depends on the time the plane could land at the Kathmandu airport, which has been extremely busy now.
4041.txt:Nestrojil said the doctors and nurses are preparing medical material and undergoing necessary vaccination before leaving Brno for Prague tonight. The plane with the complete team might take off from a Prague airport early on Tuesday, he said.
4044.txt:On the other hand, said Ms. Bentley, the Canadian government could not tell them if there would be a second evacuation plane. "Things in Kathmandu are deteriorating," she said. "We know that it is a very pressured situation at the airport for people getting in and out. And we just felt we should take this opportunity [for Fraser to leave] when we had it."
4047.txt:AFP/Reuters KATHMANDU - Desperate survivors of an earthquake that killed more than 5,000 people clashed with riot police in Nepal’s capital on Wednesday, as the United Nations appealed for $415 million for the devastated Himalayan nation.Supplies of food and water are running thin and aftershocks have strained nerves in ruined Kathmandu, home to some 2.5 million before it was shattered by Saturday’s 7.8 magnitude quake. Desperate to leave, thousands of people gathered outside the main bus station after the government promised to lay on special services to far-flung rural areas.But when the buses failed to materialise, anger surged and scuffles broke out between the crowds and riot police who were sent to try to contain the situation near parliament. Some protesters forced a truck carrying drinking water off the road and climbed on top of it, throwing the bottles to the crowd.“We’ve been left starving in the cold and the best this government can give us is this queue. Why are they so slow?” demanded Rajana as she lined up along with thousands of others for a bus to her home village. “I keep hearing on the news that all governments and aid agencies are here, but where are they? Our government is totally absent. Forget shelter, they couldn’t even give us water,” said Rajana, who goes by one name.Columns of riot police stood behind rolls of barbed wire as rioters armed with sticks surged into the street, attacking buses and other vehicles. At one point a young woman was pulled from her scooter and assaulted by an angry protester. Onlookers screamed at him to stop before riot police pulled him away.Israel advised its nationals to leave Nepal for “health and security reasons”. Hundreds of thousands of people across the country settled down for a fifth night under tents. Their homes were either wrecked or were feared to be on the verge of collapse. But with the number and scale of the aftershocks subsiding, some residents returned to salvage possessions from the ruins of their homes, grabbing everything from fridges to family chickens.“There have been some weaknesses in managing the relief operation,” Communications Minister Minendra Rijal told Nepal’s Kantipur Television, acknowledging the government had been overwhelmed by the devastation from the deadliest quake in Nepal since 1934. “The disaster has been so huge and unprecedented that we have not been in a position to meet the expectations of the needy people,” he added.There was also desperation in devastated rural areas. People have been pleading to be airlifted out when the occasional helicopter has reached their villages with relief supplies. In Dolakha angry residents smashed windows of a local administrative building, said Chief District Officer Prem Lal Lamichhane.“Over 200,000 people are homeless. We’ve been told that materials are on their way, but we haven’t received them yet,” the official pleaded. A total of 5,057 people are known to have died in Nepal and around 100 more in neighbouring India and China. Around 8,000 were injured while the United Nations estimates that eight million people have been affected. On Wednesday, the world body appealed for $415 million for Nepal, saying that around 70,000 houses had been destroyed and another 530,000 damaged. One estimate has put the cost of reconstruction at $5 billion. “Although I am heartened and encouraged by the progress of the response to date, efforts need to be maintained and stepped up to ensure vital assistance reaches all the affected, especially those in the remote areas,” said UN resident coordinator for Nepal, Jamie McGoldrick.Earlier McGoldrick said that the Nepalese government had told organisers of the relief effort there was no need for further outside help, with teams from many countries on the ground. Among the dead were 18 climbers who were at Mount Everest base camp when an avalanche from the quake flattened everything in its path. The victims included two Americans, an Australian and a Chinese national.Police Wednesday released a list of 33 foreigners still missing since the earthquake, including 15 Israelis, five Canadians, three Bangladeshis and three French nationals. Rescuers underlined the daunting scale of the task. An Indian Air Force plane trying to reach one of the worst-hit areas near Kathmandu was forced to drop packets of noodles and sacks of rice from the air after being unable to land, with the ground below looking like the set of a war movie.“We tried for 20 minutes but there was no possible way we could land. There was debris and rubble everywhere,” Wing Commander Abhijit S. Bali told AFP at Larpak village 80 kilometres (50 miles) outside the capital. An Indian military helicopter had better luck in the Gorkha Valley Wednesday, airlifting around a dozen mainly Slovakian trekkers to safety.And French rescuers plucked one man from the rubble of his Kathmandu hotel late Tuesday after he was trapped under masonry for around 82 hours. Barely conscious and covered in dust, Rishi Khanal was taken to hospital after being fitted with a neck brace and a drip attached to his right arm. “He said he was so thirsty that he even drank his own urine,” his brother-in-law Purna Ram Bhattarai told AFP. Two foreign nationals were found dead after an avalanche hit a village in a popular trekking destination north of the Nepalese capital Kathmandu, the interior ministry said on Wednesday, but aid workers were able to locate hundreds of others reported missing.Up to 250 trekkers were feared missing after an avalanche on Tuesday hit a village in Langtang, a national park, in the aftermath of Saturday’s massive earthquake. They were located and airlifted to safety, but two bodies were found in the area. The nationality of the dead tourists was not known, the home ministry said, adding that rescue work there had been completed. The trekkers, many of them from Israel, fought for food and for places on helicopters after being denied shelter by locals. They were unable to make it back to safety because roads and paths had been blocked, while some guest houses damaged in Saturday’s 7.8 magnitude quake shut their doors to visitors. “We were sitting in our tent when suddenly a boulder of ice fell on it,” Israeli trekker Lily Milkovich told Reuters.“After a few minutes we found that some of our friends had been buried under the snow. Once we felt we were safe to help them, we started pulling them out,” she said by telephone after being flown out to a pick-up point for bringing evacuees by bus back to Kathmandu. Milkovich said there had been fights to get on the choppers, but tensions eased when it became clear that there would be enough flights to bring everyone to safety.One Israeli rescuer described the situation in Langtang as “tense”, and said there had been fights over scarce food between stranded trekkers and Nepali villagers. “Villagers think the tourists are taking too much of the food,” said Amit Rubin, who is based at Kathmandu airport with a team from Magnus International Search & Rescue. District governor Uddhav Bhattarai, directing operations from the pick-up point, said 100 people were airlifted out on Wednesday morning with another 125 to come.The Israeli helicopters were rescuing their own nationals first, before retrieving people from other countries, he told Reuters. Around 150 Israeli tourists had been in Langtang, which is less well known than the Annapurna Circuit, where 43 people died in blizzards last autumn in the country’s worst trekking disaster. Nepali and Israeli helicopters shuttled out trekkers, and an Israeli search team was combing through villages to find those unaccounted for. Many tourists don’t register with embassies when they visit Nepal, making it hard to know how many may be missing. Yehonathan Lebel, deputy chief of mission at the Israeli embassy in Kathmandu, said bringing the trekkers back to safety was a top priority. “It is very cold up there, people don’t have food and they are getting really desperate,” he said.
405.txt:Authorities closed Kathmandu's international airport and diverted flights. Across Asia perhaps 100 million people felt the quake, the USGS said.
4081.txt:Aranmula airport project: When asked about Environment Minister Prakash Javdekar statement on the one hand that the Centre would not allow Aranmula project on the one hand and the MoEF nod to get the clearance, Mr Chandy said; “I have no idea. Please ask him.”
408.txt:The second batch of around 100 Indians arrived in IAF's C-17 aircraft, which had earlier flown to Kathmandu from here with 96 NDRF members with 15 tonnes of relief material, landed at Palam airport at around 0020 hours, Defence Ministry officials said.
409.txt:Most of the area were without power and water Sunday, but with Kathamandu airport reopened, first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. Workers were sending out tents and relief goods in trucks and helicopters, said disaster management official Rameshwar Dangal.
4100.txt:American Airlines was forced to ground dozens of domestic flights in the U.S. on Wednesday after iPad devices used to view maps malfunctioned, making flight plans and information temporarily inaccessible. American Airlines said the glitch was caused by a faulty software application on the iPads. The switch to electronic maps was established in 2013 to reduce the burden on pilots to carry large files and for more consistency and reliability among airplane maps and pilot programs. Planes at some airports returned to gates to access internet connection and reload information. (Telegraph)
4100.txt:French prosecutors and military authorities announced Wednesday they are investigating accusations that French United Nations soldiers sexually abused children in Central African Republic during a 12,000 unit peacekeeping occupation in September last year. The alleged abuses took place between December 2013 and June 2014 at a camp at the airport of Central African Republic’s capital, Bangui, before the UN mission in the country took effect. (Telegraph)
4108.txt:The doctors from Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, Safdarjung Hospital and All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi are members of a 34-member medical team sent to Nepal for treating the survivors. "When we reached the airport to collect the food items from Pakistan, we found packets of ready-to-eat meals, including packets of 'beef masala'. There were other food items too," Dr Balwinder Singh told Mail Today.
410.txt:NEW DELHI: 312 stranded Indians were evacuated from Nepal on Saturday night in 3 IAF flights.The first aircraft with 55 Indians rescued from Nepal landed at Delhi at 10.20pm.The second batch of around 100 Indians arrived in IAF's C-17 aircraft, which had earlier flown to Kathmandu from here with 96 NDRF members with 15 tonnes of relief material, landed at Palam airport at around 12.20am, defence ministry officials said.A third aircraft will evacuate 160 people from Kathmandu later in the night.India had sent C-130J, IL-76 and C-17 planes to Kathmandu to ferry Indian nationals stuck in the Nepalese capital.The IL-76 plane had flown 153 NDRF members along with 28 tonnes of relief material to Kathmanadu while the C-17 aircraft had carried 96 NDRF members with 15 tonnes of relief material.Nepal was struck by the worst earthquake in 80 years, leaving nearly 1,500 people dead in flattened houses and buildings.More flights have been planned for Sunday.First batch of stranded Indians from Nepal at Palam, Delhi. (Photo: PIB/Twitter)(With inputs from agencies)
4118.txt:No. Unless you are trained medical professionals or trained in doing relief work, please do not go. If you are trained, connect with other groups who are taking those who have the expertise. Go with a group and don't just show up. There is a bottleneck at the airport — we have only one international airport — it's been really difficult to handle on the ground there.
4130.txt:Dr. Balwinder Singh was quoted by The Daily Mail saying, "When we reached the airport to collect the food items from Pakistan, we found packets of ready-to-eat meals, including packets of 'beef masala'. There were other food items too. We did not touch the Pakistani aid."
4137.txt:"When we reached the airport to collect the food items from Pakistan, we found packets of ready-to-eat meals, including packets of 'beef masala'. There were other food items too," Dr Balwinder Singh told Mail Today.
4140.txt:"When we reached the airport to collect the food items from Pakistan, we found packets of ready-to-eat meals, including packets of 'beef masala'," one of the doctors, Balwinder Singh, told the newspaper.
4141.txt:“When we reached the airport to collect the food items from Pakistan, we found packets of ready-to-eat meals, including packets of ‘beef masala’. There were other food items too,” Dr Balwinder Singh was quoted as saying.
4145.txt:International aid has begun arriving in Nepal, but disbursement has been slow, partly because aftershocks have sporadically closed the airport.
4146.txt:Chaos has reigned at Kathmandu’s small airport since the earthquake, with the onslaught of relief flights causing major backups on the tarmac.
4151.txt:The first UK aid flight carrying 120 people landed at a private hangar at Stansted Airport, Essex.
4151.txt:Hollie Jobes from Sunderland at London's Stansted Airport after she and other British nationals were evacuated from Nepal.
4151.txt:Graeme Jobes from Sunderland at London's Stansted Airport after he and other British nationals were evacuated from Nepal.
4151.txt:A local crisis counseillor comforts a distraught woman wearing a I Love Nepal t-shirt at London Stansted Airport after they were evacuated from Nepal following a 7.8 magnitude earthquake that struck the Himalayan nation on April 25 killing over 5,000 people. PRESS ASSOCIATION Photo. Picture date: Thursday April 30, 2015. Around 120 British people were evacuated from quake-hit Nepal on the return journey of a UK aid flight. See PA story QUAKE Nepal. Photo credit should read: Niklas Allen / PA Wire.
4151.txt:Red Cross volunteers were on hand at the airport to help anybody with minor injuries or who was overcome with emotion.
4151.txt:The plane carrying Britons who were stranded in Nepal after it landed at Stansted Airport (Ben Kendall/PA)
4153.txt:More than 100 UK nationals were reunited with loved ones in emotional scenes after landing back on home soil at Stansted Airport shortly after 3am today.
4160.txt:Rain and wind that hit parts of the country starting Wednesday hampered aid efforts and added to the misery of the tens of thousands of newly homeless people, aid workers reported. In addition, the capital city of Kathmandu has one airport with a single runway and limited parking for airplanes. That and other meager infrastructure issues are creating a bottleneck of supplies.
4160.txt:"With only one airport serving the area, and it being a very small airport, we’re already seeing a backlog," Elizabeth Tromans, a member of a humanitarian response team from Catholic Relief Services, wrote in a blog post on the organization’s website. "For example, our first relief supplies were supposed to land this morning and were diverted, so we are hoping they come tomorrow."
4161.txt:However the process to get even basic emergency supplies and Search and Rescue Teams into the area is hampered by restricted capacity at Kathmandu Airport and Customs procedures.
4163.txt:The first Boeing 747 took off from Dubai heading to Kathmandu airport with the first 90 metric tonnes of aid. The total volume of shipment that shall be sent through the air bridge will exceed 450 metric tonnes and include aid items consisting of emergency health kits, water purification units, water storage and distribution units, blankets, tents, tarpaulin, jerry cans, buckets, plastic sheets, solar lamps, ICT equipment and food items.
4167.txt:Link Nepal quake survivor Camille Thomas, 18, from Victoria's Apollo Bay, breaks down as she is reunited with her mother Kate Thomas at Bangkok airport after arriving on an RAAF evacuation flight. Photo: Lindsay Murdoch
4167.txt:Pushed on a wheelchair through Bangkok airport, suffering frost-bitten feet,18-year-old Victorian Camille Thomas collapsed into the arms of her mother Kate Thomas.
4167.txt:Link Camille Thomas collapses into the arms of her mother Kate Thomas at Bangkok airport. Camille is suffering from frost bite on her feet. Photo: Lindsay Murdoch
4169.txt:When Sheridan arrived at the international airport in Kathmandu his Seven "handlers" told rival media he was not able to comment despite his story becoming headline news in Australia.
4171.txt:In fact, all the aid has been handed over to the Nepalese version of the Care organisation. It's been very difficult for a lot of countries to get their aid distributed. There's not the kind of air traffic that's available in other nations, so it's a case of leaving it at the airport and hoping that it gets places where it's needed.
4171.txt:They were bussed to the airport and ushered quickly onto the tarmac with the help of consular staff.
4174.txt:“We know that there is aid in the country; there are cargo planes at the airport. But he hasn’t seen a lot of aid on the streets, so at this point he’s not sure whether there’s a bottleneck with the road system,” said Terry Barton, who is regularly updating the foundation’s Facebook page.
4184.txt:The rescue group had planned to travel to Nepal on Wednesday, but the flight was postponed as the aircraft had to wait for permission to land at Nepal's single international airport in Kathmandu.
4185.txt:The flight will travel from Hamburg to Nepal by way of Doha, Qatar, where the A320 will make a needed refueling stop. The flight could leave as early as Thursday, though the exact timing will depend on when a landing slot opens in Nepal's capital of Kathmandu. Operations at that airport -- Nepal's busiest -- have been difficult in the wake of the earthquake.
4186.txt:On day five after the devastating earthquake in Nepal it is logistical problems that are presenting the biggest challenge in supplying the people in need. At Kathmandu airport, only aeroplanes with a total landing weight of 190 tonnes are permitted to land. "This means that, so far, only small cargo planes have been able to land. We know from other disasters how frustrating it is when the distribution of aid supplies takes such a long time. But it isn't sufficient just to fly everything to Kathmandu, there is a lack of storage capacity and trucks to be able to reach remote regions," explains Rüdiger Ehrler, Welthungerhilfe's emergency response coordinator in Nepal.
418.txt:US Ambassador Peter Bode greeted the new batch of volunteers at Kathmandu airport. They will take an 11-week training course that includes intensive instruction in the Nepali language and then will be sent, usually in pairs, to districts in western Nepal, which is the least-developed part of the country. Peace Corps projects in Nepal focus on food security and improving the nutritional status of women and children under two.
4190.txt:http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/nepal-earthquake-anuj-sachdeva-kathmandu-airport-air-force-rescue-operations/1/433016.html
4190.txt:"I was there for a wedding, so I stayed back for a day. On the 25th, I was on my way back from Kathmandu. I had a flight back to Mumbai, and I had to leave by 2pm. I'd checked out of the hotel and had gone to the airport in the morning itself, since a friend had his flight in the morning. That was the last flight that left from Kathmandu that day. My flight was supposed to arrive, and before that, the earthquake happened.
4190.txt:"There was no food; the only stall at the airport had been shut. We went out and somehow we managed to go towards the runway. A guy injured himself on the glass shards badly while getting out. After an hour, the tremors returned. We had the fear that we couldn't go inside.
4190.txt:"I'd already checked in. After spending three-four hours at the airport, I went outside the building. The airport was empty. My flight, which was supposed to have taken off in the afternoon, never landed in Kathmandu, to begin with. The flight was cancelled later. It was very cold outside; it was raining, too. I had to be in Mumbai on the 26th for a shoot, but everything turned topsy-turvy.
4190.txt:"Next morning, I left for the airport. We couldn't get in touch with anyone. The network was too congested. When I reached the airport, there were some 3,000 people there. The worst part was that all night, all of us kept calling the Indian Embassy. We saw the phone numbers on TV and called them up, but there was no response from the embassy. What is the use of flashing the numbers then? No one had any information about the rescue operations. And no one would risk their lives and stand at the airport.
4190.txt:"The air force guys informed us that they'd been given the orders to expedite the rescue operations and pick up as many people as soon as possible. But Tribhuvan Airport being an international one, it was a bit difficult. One runway was damaged because of the quake; and there was only one runway that could be used. The rescue operations were planned and executed within four hours. That is something that struck us as really amazing. You know the pace at which things happen in India...
4190.txt:"In the morning, there was no one from the Indian Embassy; he arrived only around noon. By the time he reached the airport, there was a queue of some 1,400 people there. Since I had a flight ticket, I stood in a different queue. We were not even informed that all commercial flights had been put on hold. I somehow managed to reach the runway. There were people lying all over the runway.
4192.txt:"We are stuck at Lukla airport. Only few private airlines are operating from here to Kathmandu. The Nepali officers of these airlines and their Sherpa agents are taking money and giving preference to foreigners other than Indians. We Indians are absolutely neglected. They even tried to attack an Indian TV crew when they tried to film the event," Sanghvi said.
4194.txt:International aid has begun arriving in Nepal, but disbursement has been slow, partly because aftershocks have sporadically closed the airport.
419.txt:The firefighters, who are camped out at the Kathmandu Airport, liaised with Canadian officials, the Emergency Watch and Response Centre and a local army unit to secure the hikers’ safety.
4214.txt:The 15-member team, led by Dr Chien Sou-hsin, immediately contacted the medical group set up at the airport and is expected to launch surgical, emergency aid and internal medicine services today.
4215.txt:"Within seconds we heard thundering, which sounded like bomb explosions and there were tonnes of earth coming down. The ground shook violently about 30 to 40 seconds before our guide shouted to run to a nearby base camp lodge," recalled Aik Meng when met at the Tribhuvan International Airport here.
4216.txt:29/04/2015. Members of the Gift of the Givers pack their gear after arriving at Tribhuvan International Airport in Nepal. Picture: Masi Losi
4217.txt:However, the earthquake response effort is not without challenges. Some aid teams have had trouble landing in Nepal; the already-small airport has had to restrict flight volume. Also, with aftershocks likely to continue in the following days, people are afraid to go back into their homes, and resulting avalanches could block roads — preventing aid workers from accessing some communities.
4225.txt:As Chand made the appeal, however, the cargo site at the airport in the Nepali capital illustrated the bigger problem on the ground: a cripplingly slow response by the administration.
4225.txt:Piles of tents that China sent have been lying at the airport since Monday, soldiers stationed there said. The tents were unloaded from the plane only Wednesday. Worse still, no one at the site knew when they would be sent to the far-flung villages where the temblor displaced hundreds of thousands of people.
4225.txt:Aid workers said many of their cargo planes are still awaiting permission to fly to Kathmandu's beleaguered airport. The planes that have landed are waiting for their cargo to be unloaded. In many instances, the aid teams are not promptly told where to go or whom to work with.
4231.txt:Yet getting more aid in through Kathmandu's small international airport is expected to be a challenge, with UN agencies reporting that a number of aid flights have been delayed or turned back due to congestion.
4231.txt:IFRC expects its first two planeloads of fresh aid to arrive at the airport Friday, with stocks to serve 1,000 people and a 60-bed rapid deployment emergency hospital, but warned far more was needed.
4242.txt:Died helping Western mountaineers Dawa Chiri Sherpa Dawa Chiri Sherpa was among those killed at the Mount Everest base camp after the April 25 earthquake unleashed a massive howl of wind and rocks. His family learned the news and then waited two days at the Lukla airport before Sherpa's badly broken body was flown down. Sherpa, one of six brothers and sisters from the village of Chaurikharka, became an Everest climber to make more money for the family, says his brother, Tenzing Sherpa, 42. Dawa loved football and recently was married. He, like his other brothers, began working as a porter for Western mountaineers. This was his second attempt to climb to the top of Everest. "He made it to Camp II last year and this year he was done at base camp," says his brother. Dawa leaves behind a 22-year-old wife, Phura Yangzi Sherpa, 22, and 18-year-old daughter Chiring Dolma. CNN's Moni Basu
4242.txt:A blow to the chest Sabina Lama She was thrust into an Indian helicopter that was distributing aid in Sindhupalchok, a hard-hit Nepalese district east of Kathmandu. Sabina Lama, 18, wore a red T-shirt that read "Beach Beauty" and was cradled in a straw mat. She couldn't move or feel her legs. She was badly injured in the earthquake after the ceiling collapsed at a health center she was visiting. She'd gone there to vaccinate her 1½-month-old baby. As the chopper took flight, her husband sat helpless at her bare feet, holding their little boy. Not long into the ride over the countryside, Lama lost her pulse. She'd gone into cardiac arrest. CNN's Dr. Sanjay Gupta was on the flight, and with no other tools available to him, he gave her a strong blow to the chest -- and Lama came to. Stopping at a makeshift hospital high in the mountains, the helicopter crew picked up other patients and grabbed an IV drip to give Lama fluids. They strung the drip up in the helicopter, using a disposable face mask to tie it to the ceiling. Onward the helicopter flew. This time to the airport in Kathmandu, where ambulances awaited. CNN's Ben Tinker, Hilary Whiteman and Jessica Ravitz
4242.txt:'The most beautiful place' Tom Taplin Just two days before the massive quake, filmmaker Tom Taplin ventured into the Khumbu Icefall, considered one of the most treacherous obstacles en route to Mount Everest. Mountaineers have always approached the icefall with awe and apprehension. Taplin, 61, was there filming a documentary on the Everest base camp. "Today, we went into the lower part of the icefall," he texted his wife. "It is one of the most beautiful places I have ever seen." That was the last message Cory Freyer received from her husband. Taplin was an experienced mountaineer and skier. "He had a great love of the wilderness and the mountains and extreme landscapes. He and I together have traveled to Patagonia and Antarctica. He has been on some amazing adventures with friends." Among those adventures: climbing Mount McKinley; attempting to scale Aconcagua, an Argentine mountain that's the highest outside of Asia; and trekking up Ama Dablam, one of the most beautiful peaks in the Himalayas. But he was mostly known for his larger-than-life personality and a devotion to friends that was said to be epic. He was a film student in the 1970s at the California Institute of the Arts and stayed in touch with about a dozen friends who graduated together. "He was sort of a thread who kept us together," says classmate Marika van Adelsberg. He and Cory first began dating in 1986. It was a romance that began simply. "I met his mother. She said, 'You live in Los Angeles. You should meet my son, Tom.' " They lived together more than 20 years before deciding to get hitched three years ago. They went to the justice of the peace in Denver, with his mom, Bea, as the witness. "We just decided it was something good to do." Her last image of her husband was he and his two colleagues lugging 18 bags of equipment and clothing into the airport in late March. She gave him "a big hug goodbye with expectations of seeing him at the beginning of June." They reached the Everest base camp on April 14. He called her the next day. "It was a pretty monumental thing to actually hear from him," she says. "To hear his voice. We are such good companions – just to hear his voice was very wonderful. It makes me feel like I'm there with him." CNN's Wayne Drash
4247.txt:UK aid flight now departed Kathmandu airport on return journey with c120 British nationals on board #Nepal — Philip Hammond (@PHammondMP) April 29, 2015
4250.txt:MARK COLVIN: The United Nations has launched an emergency appeal for $415 million to reach eight million people affected by the earthquake. Frustration is turning to anger, as we've heard, in remote areas of Nepal. There's a bottleneck of planes at the Kathmandu airport, waiting to deliver vital medical supplies and food.
4250.txt:There's also frustration at the international airport. Aid agencies have been offloading food and supplies but many planes haven't been able to land.
4250.txt:TIM COSTELLO: The bottleneck at the airport means that we have distributed all the World Vision supplies that were in country and are desperately waiting on our plane to land from Dubai. It's been trying for three days so it's a narrow bottleneck at the airport.
4252.txt:Airports were operating at "near normal" capacity, with New Zealanders continuing to leave on commercial flights, Mfat said.
4262.txt:There were emotional scenes as family members greeted relatives after the plane landed at Stansted Airport shortly after 03:00 BST.
4262.txt:Image copyright PA Image caption Friends and family of the British nationals waited at Stansted Airport for the plane's arrival
4262.txt:Image copyright PA Image caption There were emotional scenes as family members greeted relatives at the airport
4268.txt:India was the first to send the relief and rescue materials. But Indian officials say thousands of kgs of medicines, dry food items, tents and more are accumulating at the Tribhuvan International Airport.
426.txt:Meanwhile, a Mumbai-Kathmandu flight of the Jet Airways was diverted to Lucknow and emergency landing was made at the Chaudhary Charan Singh Airport here after Kathmandu Airport was closed following the earthquake this morning, officials said.
4273.txt:The group was reunited family and friends and met with a hero’s welcome at the Terminal 2 of Dubai International Airport.
4275.txt:Or's mother, Orit, had waited at Ben-Gurion Airport for the Israelis returning from Nepal, carrying with a sign asking for information about her son.
4275.txt:Orit Asraf with a banner asking for information about her son, at Ben-Gurion Airport.
4276.txt:29/04/2015. Members of the Gift of the Givers pack their gear after arriving at Tribhuvan International Airport in Nepal. Picture: Masi Losi
4277.txt:At least two trucks of aid organised by concerned locals in Kathmandu have now reached the district and aid from established NGOs is also beginning to arrive. One team of doctors spent eight hours in the area on Thursday. However, heavy goods vehicles are in short supply, the nation’s only international airport is heavily congested, and there is a shortage of space to stock incoming relief supplies.
4281.txt:Teegan Wright awaits departure at Lukla airport after devastating quake
4281.txt:In a statement on its website on Wednesday, DFAT said domestic airports in Nepal were operational, however flights were being delayed or cancelled due to weather, congestion, and prioritising aid flights and rescue helicopters.
4286.txt:One of the members of the group, Amar Singh Malhotra, said that they had started on pilgrimage on April 20 and after visiting Haridwar and other religious places they reached Nepal on April 24.On the next day, they held 'puja' at Pashupatinath temple in Kathmandu and later returned to the 'dharamsala' where they were staying.Recalling the horror, Malhotra said as they were standing in queue for breakfast the earthquake struck on the morning of April 25."We were standing out on road, waiting for breakfast, when we first felt mild tremors which later turned into big jolts, forcing everybody to run out."A women of our group Kanta Tewari, fell. So did others. Then two buildings in the neighbourhood came crashing down, resulting in clouds of dust, roads started ripping apart and people started running," he said."It was really a life and death experience, a kind of brush with death," he said emotionally."Earth was shaking, vibrating and shifting away from under our feet, buildings were coming crashing down, craters were appearing on roads, colossal structures were falling like pack of cards, people were scrambling for open spaces-- all in a matter of a few seconds," he recalled.Owner of a computer shop here, Malhotra said that they remained stranded there for two days after the earthquake.They stayed in the bus in which they had gone to Nepal for two days as everyone feared to go inside the 'dharamsala', though it had not caved in."We also tried to get flight at the Tribhuvan International Airport there but there was a long queue of hundreds of tourists and our turn would have come after 2-3 days. So we decided to venture back by the same bus upto Gorakhpur. From there, we took train upto Ambala and then another to Phagwara," he said."On way, we faced a lot of difficulties as roads were blocked by boulders and uprooted trees. We have to wait for long for clearance of the road and it was quiet taxing," he said.However, Malhotra was all praise for Indian rescuers, especially Army, Airforce and NDRF.
428.txt:The earthquake also shook several cities across northern India, and was felt as far away as Lahore in Pakistan, Lhasa in Tibet, and in Dhaka, Bangladesh. Following the quake, Kathmandu's international airport was shut down.
4294.txt:Meanwhile the next round of distributions will depend on relief supplies airlifted in from Dubai. The organisation is waiting for relief cargo to arrive in Nepal. Shipments include 5,000 tarpaulins, that are loaded and waiting to fly. But at the moment, flights are having difficulties landing with the airport highly congested and continued aftershocks are just a few of the challenges.
429.txt:Most areas were without power and water Sunday, but with Kathamandu airport reopened, first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. Workers were sending out tents and relief goods in trucks and helicopters, said disaster management official Rameshwar Dangal.
4301.txt:More than 100 UK nationals were reunited with loved ones in emotional scenes after landing back on home soil at Stansted Airport shortly after 3am today.
4306.txt:Australians at the airport told The Daily Telegraph they would attempt to return to Nepal to offer assistance after their harrowing experiences.
4306.txt:media_camera Survivor ... Alice Forrest from Manly arrives at Kathmandu International airport to board an Australian Defence Force C17 aircraft to Bangkok. Picture: Nathan Edwards
4306.txt:The mother and daughter — who intend to continue travelling through Asia before returning to Australia — had a flight out of Nepal scheduled for Sunday but had to postpone following the aftershocks and heavy delays at the airport.
4306.txt:media_camera Lucky escape ... Toni Perry from Surry Hills leaves Kathmandu International airport to board an Australian Defence Force C17 aircraft to Bangkok. Picture: Nathan Edwards
4317.txt:A 15-year-old boy was pulled out alive from the collapsed ruins of Kathmandu's Hilton Hotel on Thursday and is recovering in hospital, five days after a huge earthquake caused devastation across Nepal and killed nearly 6,000.Pema Lama was rescued by Nepal's Armed Police Force and was put in a neck brace and carried on a stretcher to a waiting ambulance. Hundreds of onlookers broke into applause when they saw that the teenager was alive.Lama was conscious, held the hand of one of his rescuers and looked towards a large group of news crews as he was brought to safety. "When the quake came, I got hit on my chin and when I tried to come out I was trapped. I was on the ground (floor) only. We were eating while the earthquake came," Lama said at a Israeli military- run field hospital. "I never thought I would make it out alive."Libby Weiss, a spokeswoman at the hospital, said Lama was doing remarkably well, confirming he did not have any major injuries. "He was under the rubble for 120 hours and it is certainly the longest we have heard anybody of being under the rubble and surviving," she said.Lama's rescue is a rare moment of joy for a country overwhelmed by the disaster. Officials said on Thursday that the chances of finding more survivors were fading, particularly in hardhit rural areas where aid has yet to reach.While rescuers were out in the capital despite heavy morning rain, helicopters could not fly to the worst-hit areas in the countryside of the Himalayan nation. "The rain is adding to the problems. Nature seems to be against us," said Rameshwor Dandal, chief of the disaster management centre at Nepal's home ministry.Anger over the pace of the rescue has flared up in some areas, with Nepalis accusing the government of being too slow to distribute international aid that flooded into the country. In Ashrang village in Gorkha, one of the worst-hit districts, hundreds of Nepali villagers were living out in the open with little food and water despite boxes of biscuits, juices and sacks of rice and wheat being stored in a nearby government office.In Kathmandu and other cities, hospitals are overflowing with injured. "The new waves of patients are those who survived the quake, but are sick because they were living in the open and drinking contaminated water," said Dr Binay Pandey at Bir Hospital in the capital.Dr Pandey said at least 1,200 patients suffering from water-borne illnesses had been admitted in the hospital since Wednesday morning.Relief aid group Oxfam says congestion at Kathmandu airport, blocked roads, fuel shortages and difficult terrain are slowing down the pace of aid delivery. The group is looking at ways to transport essential goods overland from India. It says challenges include getting aid to remote mountain villages, many of which are connected by a single dirt road.Five-month-old Sonit Awal, who was pulled out unhurt from the rubble of a building in the ancient Nepal city of Bhatkapur, has been reunited with his mother. Sonit was trapped under the debris for 22 hours.Pakistan reportedly sent packets of "beef masala" as part of its relief supplies to Nepal, which has a majority Hindu population. Indian doctors at Kathmandu's Bir Hospital said that beef masala packets were sent by Pakistan on Tuesday, according to a report.of confirmed deaths in the quake, Nepal government said Thursdayof aftershocks recorded in the Himalayan region since April 25 quakeof houses destroyed or damaged, according to the UNof patients suffering from water-borne illnesses in a single hospital
4318.txt:As with the situation earlier this week, the SRC team was slightly delayed in arriving at Tribhuvan International Airport because of congestion.
4318.txt:Mr Nirajan Khadka, 32, a sales assistant at a telcommunications shop at the airport, said the situation in the building had become a lot more stable the past few days.
4319.txt:a £5 million package to provide a further team of trauma medics, humanitarian experts and airfield handling equipment to ease congestion at Kathmandu airport.
431.txt:Some Pakistani cities also felt the tremors but fortunately there were no casualties reported. Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has ordered the government to immediately send four aircraft loaded with relief goods to the calamity-stricken country. The aircraft would leave for Nepal as soon as the Pakistani government receives a go ahead from Kathmandu Airport.
4320.txt:Roger Strachan, 19, from York, was among the first off the plane at Stansted Airport last night as more than 100 Britons left stranded in Nepal were reunited with their families.
4320.txt:Red Cross volunteers were on hand at the airport to help anybody with minor injuries or who was overcome with emotion.
4323.txt:“The number escalated to over 220 Singaporeans after the earthquake. Through the assistance of our Crisis Response Team at the Kathmandu International Airport, more than 100 have returned to Singapore over the past few days on the RSAF and commercial flights,” the spokesperson said.
4331.txt:The government also instituted committees led by the Ministry of Home Affairs made efforts to strengthen the existing international airport, coordinated the armed forces and carried out retrofitting of several bridges and infrastructure on main thoroughfares in anticipation of a major earthquake in and around Kathmandu Valley. Nonetheless, the 7.9 magnitude earthquake that hit Nepal this weekend on April 25th, and the immediate loss of thousands of lives reminds us that individual preparedness is far from enough in disasters like this.
4340.txt:Planes carrying food, shelter and other supplies have been arriving steadily at Kathmandu’s small airport, but the aid distribution process remains fairly chaotic, with Nepalese officials having difficulty directing the flow of goods.
4341.txt:SINDHUPALCHOWK: Homeless, exhausted and angry, Nepal quake survivors on Thursday began attacking relief convoys as complaints of tardy aid distribution piled up despite a glut of relief material clogging the airport and relief hubs.Wet and chilly weather hampered relief work as residents remained on edge due to aftershocks that have rattled the country since the Saturday quake that has destroyed thousands of buildings. The official death toll so far is 5,800 but Nepal Army chief General Gaurav Rana, who is leading the nationwide rescue effort, told NBC News, "Our estimates are not looking good. We are thinking that 10,000 to 15,000 may be killed."Most fatalities have been reported from Sindhupalchowk, a district separated from Kathmandu by about 70km but by decades in time. By Thursday, 1,600 people had lost their lives, according to the district administrative office. Many more were yet to be pulled out from the rubble of flattened homes.Little in terms of aid had reached here though. The local media said this has increasingly led to attacks on relief vehicles.Angry men, some of them kids, captured three containers of tents and other items that were being ferried by the Nepal Army at Sangachowk. They said they were afraid what was meant for them might go to "people with connections".These were perhaps the first trucks that had arrived in the district with the most damage to both life and property -- by comparison the Kathmandu toll stood at about 1,100 on Thursday -- and people were not ready to lose them.Som Bahadur Tamang said he was one of those who tried to seize the contents of the vehicle that were sent by Save the Children and escorted by army men."We are hardworking, honest men," he said. "We are not robbers. But look at how we have been living. It has been almost a week after the earthquake and we are still out in the open. The children have been crying all day. They are cold and without milk. Ke garne ra, paristithi nai esto chha (What can we do, the situation called for it)."The 100-odd tents, even if they found their way to the needy, are nothing compared to what the 1,50,000 affected in Sindhupalchowk want.They are mostly out on their own. Local residents spoke of how in the absence of basic first aid, seven people, who had been dug out alive in Golchhe after hours of effort, died later for want of treatment.Elsewhere in Dolakha district, victims of the quake targeted government buildings and burnt furniture. In Gorkha, Nuwakot, Ramechhap and Dhading, some of the most severely-hit districts, rage was growing.Away from Kathmandu, officials are both anxious and resigned. Sindhupalchowk district officer Krishna Gyawali said, "So many people come demanding relief, but what can we do if nothing has reached us? How can we make them understand?"Nepal will have to get its act together and quickly take aid to the people, a concern that its National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has now raised.NHRC in its latest report said "real earthquake victims" have not received help, both in Kathmandu Valley and elsewhere. In a statement, it said that food and other material that has come from foreign countries lay in piles at the Tribhuvan International Airport and that the need of the hour was to disburse it at the earliest.Back in Sindhupalchowk, some of the bodies that remain trapped in buildings, 90% of which have been damaged, have begun to rot. There is a deep sense of helplessness all around."We can do nothing," wept Mira Karki, who lost her husband and mother-in-law. "We will die of starvation and disease or cold if the government does not act soon. Please tell them."In Kathmandu, overnight rainfall forced many people to return to their damaged homes leading to thinning out of tent cities. Many small shops too began to open.
4342.txt:Meanwhile, the UK relief agency Oxfam said congestion at Kathmandu airport, fuel shortages, blocked roads and difficult terrain were slowing down the pace of aid delivery.
4352.txt:The atmosphere at Nepal’s Pokhara airport was one of chaos mingled with relief as planes finally took off from the tourist town where visitors had been trapped since a 7.8 earthquake hit the country on April 25.
4352.txt:A Yeti Airlines aircraft had been on standby in the capital waiting for the green light to begin its shuttle missions. Rumbling aftershocks continued to send tremors through the ground in the days following the quake, and Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan airport was prioritising emergency responses.
4352.txt:“Right now, the government is trying its best, but today I was in the airport and I saw a lot of villages up there in the mountain collapsed,” he said.
4353.txt:According to the Chinese media reports, two of the aircraft were stationed at Chengdu Shuangliu International Airport in Sichuan province and another at Kunming Changshui International Airport.
4357.txt:http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/nepal-earthquake-uk-aid-team-igi-airport-security-delhi-twitter/1/432871.html
4357.txt:Nepal earthquake: UK aid team breach security at Delhi airport
4357.txt:It has come to light that a rescue team which arrived from the United Kingdom on Monday for operations in earthquake-hit Nepal, violated the safety norms of the Delhi IGI Airport. The team allegedly waited in front of an aircraft at the 'apron area' of the airport for about six hours before they could fly to Kathmandu.
4357.txt:An immigration official said the British group comprised 15-20 personnel from the UK Fire and Rescue team. They reached Delhi IGI Airport around 5.30 pm on Monday. But due to weather and other clearance issues, they were asked to wait at the airport.
4357.txt:"The team didn't have proper clearances. India keeps a watch on every unit and aircraft flying to Kathmandu through Delhi. Airport officials asked them to wait but instead of going to the terminal building, these rescue team members waited in front of the nosewheel of an aircraft," a senior airport official told Mail Today.
4357.txt:"Even then, the rescue team members didn't go inside the airport. No security official asked them to move from there. They remained there for more than three hours," a senior immigration official said.
4357.txt:"They had equipment which needed to be checked by various agencies. Also, they didn't take proper permission due to which they were asked to wait. But, they ignored all security rules and stayed there in front of an aircraft," a senior airport official said.
4357.txt:Members of the British rescue team headed to Nepal posted photos of them waiting at IGI Airport on Twitter.
4357.txt:The relief and rescue operations being carried out by India are not the only way we are helping quake-ravaged Nepal. India is also facilitating the movement of various international rescue teams as the IGI Airport has turned into a transit hub.
4357.txt:According to sources, the Delhi airport has become a hub for the aircraft of various countries such as Russia, Canada, Belgium and the Netherlands.
4357.txt:An airport official said the traffic of non-scheduled flights has increased by almost 20 per cent since the April 25 earthquake in Nepal. The official added that the Indian agencies, including the air traffic controller (ATC), Delhi airport operator DIAL, the CISF, the Delhi Police and others, are helping international rescue teams who have set up base at Delhi IGI Airport.
4357.txt:The official added that there are three Russian military aircraft, one Canadian, one Belgium, two of Spanish Air Force, one Dutch and one aircraft from the Netherlands government at the IGI Airport.
4357.txt:"Since last Friday, various international agencies are cocoordinating rescue operations from Delhi as there is no way to reach Kathmandu directly," a senior airport official said on Wednesday.
4357.txt:Besides facilitating the international teams, various Indian agencies have set up counters to help people coming from Nepal. The Indian Railways has opened reservation counters at the airport itself to provide immediate rail tickets to people landing in Delhi from quake-hit Nepal to help them undertake their journey to home in a smooth manner.
4358.txt:Planes carrying food and other supplies have been steadily arriving at Kathmandu’s small airport, but the aid distribution process remains fairly chaotic, with Nepalese officials having difficulty directing the flow of emergency supplies.
4359.txt:The first UK aid flight carrying 120 people landed at a private hangar at Stansted Airport, Essex.
4359.txt:Hollie Jobes from Sunderland at London's Stansted Airport after she and other British nationals were evacuated from Nepal.
4359.txt:Graeme Jobes from Sunderland at London's Stansted Airport after he and other British nationals were evacuated from Nepal.
4359.txt:A local crisis counseillor comforts a distraught woman wearing a I Love Nepal t-shirt at London Stansted Airport after they were evacuated from Nepal following a 7.8 magnitude earthquake that struck the Himalayan nation on April 25 killing over 5,000 people. PRESS ASSOCIATION Photo. Picture date: Thursday April 30, 2015. Around 120 British people were evacuated from quake-hit Nepal on the return journey of a UK aid flight. See PA story QUAKE Nepal. Photo credit should read: Niklas Allen / PA Wire.
4359.txt:Red Cross volunteers were on hand at the airport to help anybody with minor injuries or who was overcome with emotion.
4359.txt:The plane carrying Britons who were stranded in Nepal after it landed at Stansted Airport (Ben Kendall/PA)
435.txt:4.20 pm: At Tribhuvan international airport that shares boundary with domestic airport,the air traffic towers went unmanned for hours because of the tremor shocks. Landing and take off of international flights have been suspended as the government is taking stock of the situation.
4365.txt:As locals searched for survivors, all she saw was an airport without order or planes leaving on Saturday night.
4365.txt:“What we learned is all the workers from the airport just ran and they were too scared to go back in, so the airport itself was fine but there was no staff,” she said.
4365.txt:She described the scene at the airport as “utter chaos.”
4365.txt:But getting into the airport to get her ticket was a challenge, as guards were blocking the gates.
4365.txt:Some planes never landed at that airport in Nepal. Fortunately, Kooren’s plane did arrive, and she breathed a sigh of relief when she landed safely in San Diego on Monday night.
4367.txt:More than 100 UK nationals were reunited with loved ones in emotional scenes after landing back on home soil at Stansted Airport shortly after 3am today.
4371.txt:Beverly Brown, the Huntsville woman trapped in Nepal after the deadly earthquake hit last weekend, arrived Friday evening at Huntsville International airport and was greeted by plenty of family and friends.
4381.txt:When Sheridan arrived at the international airport in Kathmandu on Tuesday, handlers told The Daily Telegraph he wouldn’t be able to speak with other media. Not long after they shot a promo called Moving Mountains, plugging it would follow My Kitchen Rules.
4381.txt:The International Airport, which has nine landing spots, is running around the clock.
4381.txt:media_camera Actor Hugh Sheridan at Kathmandu International Airport / Picture: Nathan Edwards
4382.txt:The airport in the capital is no longer filled with a surge of visitors desperate to leave, but instead with large pallets arriving with medicine, food, blankets, tents and other supplies.
4382.txt:Turkish doctors Mustafa Yazilioglu and Muzaffer Akkoca, dressed in bright red uniforms, waited patiently Thursday on hard blue plastic chairs in a deserted wing of the airport to pick up 10 tons of medical supplies — dozens of pallets sent from the Turkish government.
4387.txt:Planes carrying food, shelter and other supplies have been arriving steadily at Kathmandu's small airport, but the aid distribution process remains fairly chaotic, with Nepalese officials having difficulty directing the flow of goods.
438.txt:In Kathmandu, a number of centuries-old temples have been destroyed and the country's only international airport was briefly closed.
4394.txt:The airport remained congested with planes and people trying to leave Nepal, and logistics was still a huge problem.
4396.txt:In this April 26, 2015 file photo, a German national girl and a man wait in a queue to go inside the Kathmandu international airport, in Kathmandu, Nepal. In mere seconds a powerful earthquake flattened a swathe of Nepal. The tourism industry, a pillar of the economy, has been shattered and it¿s unclear when the travelers will return.(AP Photo/Bernat Armangue, File)
4396.txt:This April 27, 2015 file photo, shows a wall at the Kathmandu airport that collapsed during Saturday's earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal. In mere seconds a powerful earthquake flattened a swathe of Nepal. Rebuilding the impoverished Himalayan nation¿s fragile economy will require a long slog, financed by foreign aid and money from its army of overseas workers. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri, File)
4397.txt:The bodies of two young doctors, A.S. Irshad from Kasaragod and Deepak Thomas of Kelakam in Kannur, who were killed in the Nepal earthquake, are likely to be brought to the Mangaluru airport on Wednesday night.
4398.txt:She stayed in the square for two hours, watching as people flooded out of the surrounding buildings into the square. A daughter, mother and granddaughter shared food and water with Klingenbjerg before she ventured through crumbling facades to the guest house she had been staying at about 15 minutes away. She and some of her group sent messages to family members and eventually made the trek to the Hyatt Hotel closer to the Tribhuvan International Airport.
439.txt:The United Nations has warned that Kathmandu’s airport is “swamped” with aid containers full of food, medicines and tents, and appealed to the Nepal government to quickly distribute it to those most in need, writes Dean Nelson in New Delhi.
439.txt:Urgent relief consignments have been arriving steadily into the capital since last Saturday’s earthquake, but officials and airport are not moving them out fast enough. The UN fears the growing logjam will hamper the wider aid effort as more and more arrives.
439.txt:“We’ve been saying this stuff needs moving out… we need to make sure they don’t clog the airport and [get the aid] straight out to the affected areas”, said Jamie McGoldrick, the UN coordinator for Nepal.
4401.txt:Photo: JACK GUEZ / AFP/Getty Images Image 1 of / 8 Caption Close Image 2 of 8 Israeli medics carry the babies of a homosexual couple who had three infants born to surrogate mothers in Nepal after they arrived at Ben Gurion airport near Tel Aviv on April 28, 2015, following their repatriation from the quake-hit Himalayan nation. Israel began repatriating its nationals from Nepal on April 27, 2015, including two groups of babies born to surrogate mothers in Kathmandu whose fathers are homosexual Israelis, officials said. less Israeli medics carry the babies of a homosexual couple who had three infants born to surrogate mothers in Nepal after they arrived at Ben Gurion airport near Tel Aviv on April 28, 2015, following their ... more Photo: JACK GUEZ / AFP/Getty Images Image 3 of 8 Israeli homosexual men, one of them carrying a baby born to a surrogate mother in Nepal, disembark a plane at Ben Gurion airport near Tel Aviv on April 28, 2015, following their repatriation from the quake-hit Himalayan nation. Israel began repatriating its nationals from Nepal on April 27, 2015, including two groups of babies born to surrogate mothers in Kathmandu whose fathers are homosexual Israelis, officials said. less Israeli homosexual men, one of them carrying a baby born to a surrogate mother in Nepal, disembark a plane at Ben Gurion airport near Tel Aviv on April 28, 2015, following their repatriation from the quake-hit ... more Photo: JACK GUEZ / AFP/Getty Images Image 4 of 8 An Israeli homosexual father carries his baby born to a surrogate mother in Nepal as he is cheered by relatives at Ben Gurion airport near Tel Aviv on April 28, 2015, following his repatriation from the quake-hit Himalayan nation. Israel began repatriating its nationals from Nepal on April 27, 2015, including two groups of babies born to surrogate mothers in Kathmandu whose fathers are homosexual Israelis, officials said. less An Israeli homosexual father carries his baby born to a surrogate mother in Nepal as he is cheered by relatives at Ben Gurion airport near Tel Aviv on April 28, 2015, following his repatriation from the ... more Photo: JACK GUEZ / AFP/Getty Images Image 5 of 8 TEL AVIV, ISRAEL - APRIL 28: Israelis from the Israeli rescue organization, Magen David Adom hold babies from surrogate mothers in Nepal after they disembark from an Israeli rescue plane after it landed at Ben Gurion Airport on April 28, 2015 in Tel Aviv, Israel. A plane carrying 229 Israelis who were stranded in earthquake-hit Nepal landed at Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion International Airport early Tuesday afternoon. Among the passengers were 15 newborns, including three premature babies. less TEL AVIV, ISRAEL - APRIL 28: Israelis from the Israeli rescue organization, Magen David Adom hold babies from surrogate mothers in Nepal after they disembark from an Israeli rescue plane after it landed at ... more Photo: Lior Mizrahi / Getty Images Image 6 of 8 TEL AVIV, ISRAEL - APRIL 28: Israeli travelers with their new born babies from surrogate mothers in Nepal disembark from an Israeli rescue plane after it landed at Ben Gurion Airport on April 28, 2015 in Tel Aviv, Israel. A plane carrying 229 Israelis who were stranded in earthquake-hit Nepal landed at Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion International Airport early Tuesday afternoon. Among the passengers were 15 newborns, including three premature babies. less TEL AVIV, ISRAEL - APRIL 28: Israeli travelers with their new born babies from surrogate mothers in Nepal disembark from an Israeli rescue plane after it landed at Ben Gurion Airport on April 28, 2015 in Tel ... more Photo: Lior Mizrahi / Getty Images Image 7 of 8 TEL AVIV, ISRAEL - APRIL 28: Israelis from the Israeli rescue organization, Magen David Adom hold babies from surrogate mothers in Nepal after they disembark from an Israeli rescue plane after it landed at Ben Gurion Airport on April 28, 2015 in Tel Aviv, Israel. A plane carrying 229 Israelis who were stranded in earthquake-hit Nepal landed at Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion International Airport early Tuesday afternoon. Among the passengers were 15 newborns, including three premature babies. less TEL AVIV, ISRAEL - APRIL 28: Israelis from the Israeli rescue organization, Magen David Adom hold babies from surrogate mothers in Nepal after they disembark from an Israeli rescue plane after it landed at ... more Photo: Lior Mizrahi / Getty Images Image 8 of 8 Israel evacuates surrogate babies from Nepal, leaves mothers behind 1 / 8 Back to Gallery
4402.txt:: Dozens of international health-care professionals and emergency medical aid workers crammed into a small coordination office in Kathmandu on Wednesday looking for direction on how to assist in relief efforts after last weekend's devastating earthquake."Nepal needs tents, as quickly as possible," Padam Bahadur Chand, a senior health official, told them at the meeting.As Chand made the appeal, however, the cargo site at the airport in the Nepali capital illustrated the bigger problem on the ground: a cripplingly slow response by the administration.Piles of tents that China sent have been lying at the airport since Monday, soldiers stationed there said. The tents were unloaded from the plane only Wednesday. Worse still, no one at the site knew when they would be sent to the far-flung villages where the temblor displaced hundreds of thousands of people."There are not enough trucks to take them out of here," one cargo attendant said. "Things have been moving slowly here."Nearly five days after the quake shook this Himalayan nation, killing at least 5,027 people, international workers are getting restless. Many of them are stuck in Kathmandu, even as urgent help is required in remote villages yet to be reached.Aid workers said many of their cargo planes are still awaiting permission to fly to Kathmandu's beleaguered airport. The planes that have landed are waiting for their cargo to be unloaded. In many instances, the aid teams are not promptly told where to go or whom to work with.At the coordination meeting Wednesday, nearly every question the international aid workers asked was met with a stock reply by Chand that went something like this: "The information will be shared with you soon."A doctor with a German aid agency, who has been in Nepal for two days but has not been given any task, expressed frustration. "We need to be told where to go, what is needed, what to carry and if the road to that place is in good condition. We need specific information, and time is running out," said the doctor, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because she was not authorized to talk to the news media."Yesterday we were told by officials that there are sufficient doctors, but medicines are needed. But this morning, I read in the local newspapers that there is a shortage of doctors. It makes me think, 'Are we even needed here?' "One health worker at the meeting inquired about where to send the tents. Chand said, "Please send them to the local district-level medical teams. We will give you information about the teams soon."Hundreds of people displaced by the earthquake in the distant town of Charikot, about 80 miles east of Kathmandu, protested at the local government office, breaking tables and chairs in anger because relief supplies had not reached them, according to media reports."There is a complete absence of accountability in the government. The army is doing all the coordination, but they lack the political direction," said Yubaraj Ghimire, editor of the newspaper Annapurna Post. "It shows the indifference among our politicians in this time of crisis and misery."Some international aid workers also said that Indian military planes have occupied too much of the tiny Kathmandu airstrip, delaying others.Meanwhile, President Barack Obama spoke with Nepali Prime Minister Sushil Koirala on Wednesday and assured him that the United States will do all it can to help the people of Nepal, White House press secretary Josh Earnest told reporters.At the Kathmandu meeting, Chand's team made a presentation that contained a Google map with images of affected areas, as well as population data from a 2011 census. The team also promised that the government would set up a website on Thursday that would give updated information helpful to the aid agencies.But a local public health worker said the government's delay in providing direction and information is impeding urgent relief efforts in remote districts."All these groups have come to Nepal to help," Lakshmi Tamang said after the meeting. "Delay is waste of their money and waste of their time."Anxiety is mounting in the capital, where thousands of residents lined up for miles on the city's streets early Wednesday after an announcement that buses would be available for free to ferry them out of Kathmandu."There are no jobs here in this city now. Everything has shut down. We just want to get out now and go back to our villages," said Hari Aryal, a 32-year-old restaurant cook. "The owner of the restaurant says he does not know when he will open it again. And we are scared that there may be a health epidemic soon in Kathmandu because there are so many dead bodies and so many people living so close to each other in tents. There is no proper waste management, either."About 170 buses packed with desperate people left the capital on Wednesday.The government issued a health warning Tuesday and urged people to be careful of water-borne diseases arising from poor sanitation.Some said the government is constrained by the sheer lack of information from the remote districts. Cellphone connectivity in rural areas was restored fully only late Monday. Others said inadequate coordination with international aid agencies is not unusual during natural disasters."We need you to be self-sufficient and not be a burden on the Nepalese administration," Ian Norton, who supervised coordination efforts on behalf of the World Health Organization, told the aid groups Wednesday.A U.S. team of nine doctors and paramedics, as well as rescue dogs, did just that. When the volunteers did not get any specific tasks from the Nepali government, they listened to local residents instead."You get very good information from local people on places to search much before the government officials tell you," said Andrew Lustig, founder of Santa Fe-based Global Outreach Doctors. The group has been flooded with emails in the past week from American doctors who want to work in Nepal, he said.The jet-lagged team took its three rescue dogs into the uninspected rubble of the nearby temple town of Bhaktapur. "It's not complicated. All we need are three dogs and raincoats to go out on a search-and-rescue mission," Lustig said. The doctors, however, have to continue waiting for the government's instructions.In Bhaktapur, residents watched a rescue dog named Jac sniff around in the rain-drenched wreckage for a missing woman.After a few hours, two bodies were found under the rubble.
4403.txt:Before Monday’s earthquake, only 58 Singaporeans in Nepal had registered with the ministry through its eRegister. “The number escalated to over 220 Singaporeans after the earthquake. Through the assistance of our Crisis Response Team at the Kathmandu International Airport, more than 100 have returned to Singapore over the past few days on the RSAF and commercial flights,” said an MFA spokesperson.
4404.txt:The latest unofficial report indicates Eloise's trekking party is cut off by recent avalanches and unable to reach Lukla, home to the nearest airport.
4406.txt:Two RAAF C-17 Globemaster aircraft are due to land at Nepal's only international airport in Kathmandu later today.
4406.txt:It is understood the Kathmandu airport has been heavily congested, causing some difficulty for incoming flights, with only nine parking bays at the airport.
4407.txt:He added: “From the second you leave the airport you see the magnitude of
4413.txt:The director of Caritas Nepal, Fr Pius Perumana, told the US-based Catholic News Service on Tuesday that the logistical problems were “enormous” and that several Catholic aid groups had been delayed collecting supplies at Kathmandu airport because of congestion.
4413.txt:At one point the airport was closed due to heavy rain; meanwhile dozens of international flights carrying much-needed supplies are being held in the air because the airport can only accommodate 12 international flights at a time.
4414.txt:UNICEF and partners are working with the Government of Nepal to ensure humanitarian supplies are delivered and distributed to affected communities as quickly as possible through a combination of shipping supplies on commercial and charter airlines. Humanitarian agencies are contending with significant delays due to technical restrictions on maximum landing weight and the use of wide-body aircrafts. The congestion at Kathmandu airport, due to constrained warehousing capacity and limited means to distribute incoming cargo, has compounded logistical challenges.
4416.txt:Gaulin, her friend and photo expedition leader Dean Tatooles of Chicago and participant Chris Mundy of Chicago were sitting on the aircraft at the Kathmandu airport to return home about 11:30 a.m. when the plane started shaking back and forth.
4429.txt:The plane C-130 was supposed to land at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu at 8:00am.
4429.txt:On Wednesday, the Bangladesh Army had to suspend another flight with relief materials as the airport authorities in Kathmandu did not give landing clearance to the aircraft due to shortage of space.
4429.txt:The airport is now very busy as aircraft with relief and medical goods from across the world are flying in to help rescue efforts.
4431.txt:Airports were operating at "near normal" capacity, with New Zealanders continuing to leave on commercial flights, Mfat said.
4432.txt:The two aircraft overnighted in Bangkok last night and are planned to fly in to Nepal today (Thursday), once the Australian aircraft has been granted access to Kathmandu International Airport.
4433.txt:Australians at the airport told The Daily Telegraph they would attempt to return to Nepal to offer assistance after their harrowing experiences.
4433.txt:media_camera Survivor ... Alice Forrest from Manly arrives at Kathmandu International airport to board an Australian Defence Force C17 aircraft to Bangkok. Picture: Nathan Edwards
4433.txt:The mother and daughter — who intend to continue travelling through Asia before returning to Australia — had a flight out of Nepal scheduled for Sunday but had to postpone following the aftershocks and heavy delays at the airport.
4433.txt:media_camera Lucky escape ... Toni Perry from Surry Hills leaves Kathmandu International airport to board an Australian Defence Force C17 aircraft to Bangkok. Picture: Nathan Edwards
4436.txt:The first UK aid flight carrying 120 people landed at a private hangar at Stansted Airport in Essex.
4436.txt:Red Cross volunteers were on hand at the airport to help anybody with minor injuries or who was overcome with emotion.
4437.txt:The first UK aid flight carrying 120 people landed at a private hangar at Stansted Airport in Essex.
4437.txt:Red Cross volunteers were on hand at the airport to help anybody with minor injuries or who was overcome with emotion.
4439.txt:The items to be delivered included those donated by Her Royal Highness Princess Ubolratana Rajakanya Sirivadhana Barnavadi and several government agencies. The aircraft were originally scheduled to leave Don Muang airbase earlier this morning, but were later rescheduled as the airport in Kathmandu was too crowded.
4439.txt:The two aircraft will take off as soon as they are given permission from the airport in Nepal. Thai nationals who wish to return to the Kingdom are advised to inform the Thai officials at the Thai embassy in Kathmandu. The Royal Thai Air Force will accommodate them with a flight back to Thailand.
4440.txt:'After such a brief period of preparation, I'm pleased to announce that today, Indonesia was able to send the first round of disaster relief to the government and people of Nepal, who have suffered a devastating earthquake that resulted in the deaths of more than 4,000 people,' Retno said during her opening remarks at the departure ceremony at Halim Perdanakusuma Airport in East Jakarta on Wednesday.
4444.txt:Two Air Force C-130s were scheduled to land at Don Mueang International Airport’s military terminal at 7.30pm, said Air Force spokesman Air Chief Marshal Monthol Sutchukorn.
4447.txt:More than 100 UK nationals were reunited with loved ones in emotional scenes after landing back on home soil at Stansted Airport shortly after 3am today.
4449.txt:More than 100 UK nationals were reunited with loved ones in emotional scenes after landing back on home soil at Stansted Airport shortly after 3am today.
444.txt:NSC secretary Datuk Mohamed Thajudeen Abdul Wahab said it was decided that the Malaysians would be brought back in a Royal Malaysian Air Force (RMAF) Hercules C-130 aircraft which departed the RMAF base in Subang yesterday afternoon for the Kathmandu International Airport.
4450.txt:LONDON: UK has released a £15 million package of emergency aid which will help finance a team of 30 carrying eight tonnes of equipment including medical supplies and bandages to quake-hit Nepal.British Gorkha soldiers have already started providing assistance to 200 nationals at their base through first aid and logistical support. They are also providing language assistance to international search and rescue teams as they speak both English and Nepali.Foreign secretary Philip Hammond said, "We've got a British Army Gorkha team that was on Everest that is continuing to trek down the mountain and identifying and reporting British nationals on the way as they go. We've also got gorkhas from the Gorkha Training Base in Nepal who are assisting the local authorities."With many people, dead and alive, still trapped under collapsed buildings, Britain is also sending more than 60 search and rescue responders and medical experts to support the relief effort.An eight member team of British disaster and rescue experts will also help assess and coordinate the international effort.A Royal Air Force C-17 flight scheduled will carry 1,100 shelter kits and over 1,700 solar lanterns, along with a team of Gorkha engineers. The solar lanterns will help to charge phones, radios and torches.International development secretary Justine Greening said, "In Nepal, vulnerable people are sleeping out in the open, their homes destroyed. An RAF C-17 loaded with humanitarian supplies, vital shelter kits and Gorkha engineers is being deployed, to help thousands of people affected by the disaster".On April 25, a magnitude 7.8 earthquake struck an area between Kathmandu and Pokhara in Nepal. The Nepal government warned that the death toll could cross 10,000.Britain is also sending airfield handling equipment including two forklift trucks to facilitate the swift movement of aid supplies off aircraft and help to ease congestion at Kathmandu airport.Meanwhile, Nepali students from all across British universities - SOAS, UCL, LondonMet, LSE, Queen Mary, Imperial and Westminster held a meeting at Trafalgar Square to show solidarity with those back home.Hammond said the Foreign Office had estimated there were between 500 to 1,000 British nationals in Nepal but there was "no single coordinated list".Officials had assisted more than 250 British nationals and 583 "either have left the country or are not in the country or are accounted for and safe in the country", he said.
4451.txt:a £5 million package to provide a further team of trauma medics, humanitarian experts and airfield handling equipment to ease congestion at Kathmandu airport.
4452.txt:More than 100 UK nationals were reunited with loved ones in emotional scenes after landing back on home soil at Stansted Airport shortly after 3am today.
4453.txt:She arrived at Stansted Airport earlier this morning (Thursday, April 30).
4454.txt:She arrived at Stansted Airport earlier this morning (Thursday, April 30).
4456.txt:He said: "The humanitarian impact here is enormous, with many deceased in the streets when we arrived, limited power supply and water in the city running very low. Aid is arriving steadily, with the limitation of Kathmandu airport having a very small apron space.
4457.txt:More than 100 UK nationals were reunited with loved ones in emotional scenes after landing back on home soil at Stansted Airport shortly after 3am today.
446.txt:Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who was attending a summit in Jakarta, tried to rush back home but made it as far as Bangkok where his connecting flight to Kathmandu was cancelled because the capital's international airport was shut for commercial flights. Nepalese authorities did allow Indian Air Force planes to bring in 43 tons of relief material, including tents and foods, and nearly 200 rescuers from India's National Disaster Response Force. Air India announced that it would begin relief flights to the Nepalese capital on Sunday.
4471.txt:Planes carrying food, shelter and other supplies have been arriving steadily at Kathmandu's small airport, but the aid distribution process remains fairly chaotic, with Nepalese officials having difficulty directing the flow of goods.
4472.txt:World Vision has already distributed supplies that were pre-positioned in Nepal and, over the coming days, the aid agency will work to meet the immediate needs of 100,000 people by providing first aid kids, sleeping mats, blankets, water, temporary shelter and protection for children. Flights from Dubai with much needed relief supplies are having difficulties landing at the Kathmandu airport, which is highly congested and because of the risk of continued aftershocks.
4472.txt:World Vision has activated airlifts of supplies from neighbouring countries, including tarps, blankets, jerry cans, pre-fab tents. However, these airlifts have been delayed due to congestion at Nepal's only international airport.
4472.txt:only international airport. World Vision will target an initial 100,000 people (20,000 families) in the worst-affected areas of Bhaktapur, Gorkha, Kathmandu , Lalitpur and Lamjung. The scale and scope of the agency's response may increase pending assessments of the situation.
4473.txt:Meanwhile, three days after the disaster, the Kathmandu international airport was said to be in a complete mess, swamped with passengers in their tens of thousands trying to leave the country.
4473.txt:The department has dispatched three officers to Nepal and also set up a special counter at the airport to offer assistance to Hong Kong people.
4476.txt:A team of more than 60 UK search and rescue responders with dogs has arrived and Britain is sending an additional 30 medics and heavy lifting equipment to move aid supplies off aircraft and ease congestion at Kathmandu airport.
4479.txt:Planes carrying food and other supplies have been steadily arriving at Kathmandu's small airport, but the aid distribution process remains fairly chaotic, with Nepalese officials having difficulty directing the flow of emergency supplies.
4486.txt:On my way to Kathmandu from the airport, I noticed 90% percent of the buildings were damaged. Number of affected people has risen to 80 lakh. People are still living outside of their homes for fear of another quake. Tremors are being felt every day. Most injured have fractures or lung injuries due to smoke or dust inhalation.
4487.txt:[caption id="attachment_24226" align="aligncenter" width="700"] An Indian Air Force person carries a Nepalese child, wounded in earthquake, to a waiting ambulance after the child and mother were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal. (Photo: AP)[/caption] A Nepalese woman was miraculously rescued alive by Indian rescuers 50 hours after being buried under the rubble following the devastating earthquake that jolted the country, killing over 5,000 people. Sunita Sitoula, who was trapped under the rubble after the powerful temblor brought down a five-storey building in Basundhara of Maharajgunj here, was rescued alive by India's National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel on Monday. The survivor, who was rushed to a nearby hospital, has now taken refuge at a local school with her husband and two sons who managed to escape unhurt, eKantipur reported today. "It feels like I have come into a different world," said Sitoula. NDRF assistant commandant Kulish Anand said: "We got the information that a lady is stuck between two slabs. There is some cavity and she is alive. "Firstly, we stabilised the particular area and then we gave some life saving medicine to that particular lady. After stabilising her, we just took her out." Hundreds of people are still trapped under tonnes of debris in the Kathmandu Valley and the worst-affected remote mountainous areas, as rescue workers are desperately searching for survivors of the Saturday's 7.9-magnitude earthquake. NDRF rescuers and Indian Air Force personnel have now begun reaching areas beyond Kathmandu Valley near Pokhara. India on Tuesday sent six more teams of NDRF to Nepal, taking the total number of NDRF teams to 16 from 10 who were already engaged in rescue operations there for the last few days. Each NDRF team has about 45 personnel. NDRF rescuers are at present deployed in areas like Tanu Hospital, Balajutra, Balkhu, Goodbal, Brijeshwari, Chavmati, Vasundranmunatal, Maharajganj, Gangabhu and Shobha Bhagwati Bridge.
4488.txt:"Villagers think the tourists are taking too much of the food," said Amit Rubin, who is based at Kathmandu airport with a team from Magnus International Search & Rescue.
449.txt:Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who was attending a summit in Jakarta, tried to rush back home but made it as far as Bangkok where his connecting flight to Kathmandu was canceled because the capital’s international airport was shut down.
450.txt:With Kathmandu airport reopened, the first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. The first to respond were Nepal’s neighbours — India, China and Pakistan, all of which have been jockeying for influence over the landlocked nation. Still, Nepal, a Hindu majority nation, remains closest to India with which it shares deep political, cultural and religious ties.
450.txt:Mukesh Kafle, the head of the Nepal Electricity Authority, said power has been restored fully to main government offices, the airport and hospitals.
4515.txt:Meanwhile, on Tuesday, officials were reporting a bottleneck of arrivals at Nepal's only airport, making it difficult for humanitarian supplies to arrive and be distributed. With charities and aid organizations arriving from all over the place, many with unqualified, well-meaning staff, it has become an uncoordinated free-for-all, with each charity doing what they want and what they deem important, without meaningful coordination and input from those affected.
451.txt:People rest on debris at Durbar Square after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, Saturday, April 25, 2015. A strong magnitude-7.9 earthquake shook Nepal's capital and the densely populated Kathmandu Valley before noon Saturday, causing extensive damage with toppled walls and collapsed buildings, officials said. (AP Photo/ Niranjan Shrestha) Powerful earthquake strikes Nepal: Things to Know GREGORY KATZ, Associated Press A powerful earthquake struck the Nepal region on Saturday, causing widespread casualties and triggering an avalanche on Mount Everest. The key information known at this time: ___ HOW BAD IS THE DAMAGE? It's too early to tell, but early indications suggest the early figure of 926 people killed in four countries is likely to rise substantially in the coming days. The magnitude-7.8 quake was the worst to hit Nepal in eight decades and caused damage and fatalities in neighboring countries as well. In addition to the hundreds of deaths in Nepal, at least 34 people were killed in India, 12 in Tibet and two in Bangladesh. Two Chinese citizens died at the Nepal-China border. The earthquake hit a heavily populated area of Nepal, including the capital, Kathmandu, and its impact spread far beyond the Kathmandu Valley. Strong aftershocks were felt an hour after the initial temblor. Earthquake experts are preparing for high numbers in terms of deaths and damage. "This is a very large earthquake in a significantly populated region with infrastructure that has been damaged in past earthquakes," U.S. Geological Survey seismologist Paul Earle said. "Significant fatalities are expected." Local hospitals were already filling with injured residents, and Kathmandu's international airport was shut down, hampering initial relief efforts in the isolated mountainous country. An injured man receives treatment outside the Medicare Hospital in Kathmandu, Nepal, Saturday, April 25, 2015. A strong magnitude-7.9 earthquake shook Nepal's capital and the densely populated Kathmandu Valley before noon Saturday, causing extensive damage with toppled walls and collapsed buildings, officials said. (AP Photo/ Niranjan Shrestha) ___ WHAT HAPPENED? AND WHAT HAPPENS NEXT? Seismologist Earle said the quake happened on what is known as a "thrust fault." That describes the situation when one piece of the Earth's crust is moving beneath another piece. In this case, it's the Indian plate that is moving north at 45 millimeters (1.7 inches) a year under the Eurasian plate to the north, Earle said. It's a different type of earthquake than the one that caused the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. "This is what builds the Himalayan mountain range," Earle said. The region and particular fault has a history of damaging earthquakes, including four temblors with magnitudes greater than 6.0 in the past 100 years, Earle said, warning that landslides are a particular worry now, given the steep slopes in the region. ___ WHAT DOES 'RED ALERT' ISSUED BY U.S. OFFICIALS MEAN? The U.S. Geological Survey said the earthquake was strong enough to merit a "red alert" for shaking-related fatalities and economic losses. It said that "high casualties and extensive damage are probable and the disaster is likely widespread. Past red alerts have required a national or international response." Quick USGS calculations estimate a two-thirds likelihood of between 1,000 and 100,000 fatalities and damage between $100 million and $10 billion. Scientists estimate that more than 105 million people felt at least moderate shaking during the quake. ___ WHAT HAPPENED ON MOUNT EVEREST? A devastating avalanche swept across Mount Everest after the earthquake, claiming at least eight lives with an unspecified number of people missing and injured. The avalanche struck near one of the famed mountain's most dangerous spots. It swept down between the Khumbu Icefall, known for its harsh conditions, and the base camp used by international climbing expeditions. There were unverified reports of avalanches on other parts of the mountain. Nepalese officials said some 30 people were injured at the base camp. Facebook postings by climbers suggested that some people may have been buried in their tents when the avalanche hit. Climbers and their support teams were leaving the base camp Saturday looking for safer locations. More than 4,000 climbers have scaled the 8,850-meter (29,035-foot) summit since 1953, when it was first conquered by New Zealand climber Edmund Hillary and Sherpa Tenzing Norgay. ___ HOW PREPARED IS NEPAL TO COPE WITH SUCH A CRISIS? Nepal is a relatively poor country without extensive resources despites its rich cultural heritage and spectacular mountain scenery. It has been plagued by instability in recent years, and general strikes have recently brought chaotic scenes to Kathmandu. Nepal's constitution was supposed to have been written by the Constituent Assembly that was elected in 2008, following the end of a 10-year Maoist insurgency and the overthrow of the centuries-old monarchy, but the assembly was hampered by infighting and never finished its work. The current assembly was chosen in 2013, but has faced the same problem. Neighboring Pakistan has offered help, and an international aid effort is likely to begin once Kathmandu's international airport can be reopened. ___ Associated Press writer Seth Borenstein in Washington contributed to this report.
451.txt:Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who was attending a summit in Jakarta, tried to rush back home but made it as far as Bangkok where his connecting flight to Kathmandu was canceled because the capital's international airport was shut down.
4526.txt:The group says aid workers are hindered by a congested airport in capital Kathmandu, impassable and destroyed roads which have left several remote villages still largely cut off.
4527.txt:SINGAPORE: At 12.30am on Wednesday (Apr 29), a Republic of Singapore Air Force C-130 plane touched down at Paya Lebar Air Base, marking the end of a long and harrowing journey home for those on board. Many among the 74 Singaporeans and Permanent Residents ferried had spent more than a night at the airport in Kathmandu, desperate to get a flight back to Singapore.
4527.txt:One of them was operations executive Lim Kun Jie. “Tons of people were waiting, queuing up all the way outside the airport even, just to get into the airport to get a ticket out of Kathmandu as soon as they can," he said. "People actually camped overnight on the airport grounds partly because the airport has open space, and people were afraid of aftershocks, so it was the safest place to be.
4527.txt:The C-130 pilots had hoped to land in Kathmandu on Monday, but were unable to do so due to airport congestion and bad weather.
4527.txt:"From our altitude, we could see people gathered around in open fields in makeshift huts and tents. At the airport, there was a lot of confusion; a lot of people trying to get out," said Major Sean Yang, the pilot of the RSAF C-130. "Visibility wasn't very good, on top of the weather (we experienced) going in, we didn't have the best view of what's going on.”
4527.txt:Landing in Kathmandu was also a challenge due to inclement weather. "We just had to trust our navigation; our training to be safe," said Major Yang, going on to explain the challenges of landing in Kathmandu Airport due to its geographical location.
4536.txt:Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina has earlier announced that any country can use the airports of Bangladesh to send rescue teams to Nepal.
453.txt:The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country's only international airport which was briefly closed.
454.txt:http://www.thenews.com.pk/article-182668-Four-aircraft-with-Nepal-relief-supplies-ready-at-Islamabad-airport:-PM-House
454.txt:Four aircraft with Nepal relief supplies ready at Islamabad airport: PM House
454.txt:Four aircraft with Nepal relief supplies ready at Islamabad airport: PM House
454.txt:Four aircraft with Nepal relief supplies ready at Islamabad airport: PM House
454.txt:ISLAMABAD: The Prime Minister House spokesman said in a statement on Saturday evening that on Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif’s orders, four aircraft with relief supplies for quake-affected Nepal are ready at Islamabad airport.
454.txt:The spokesman went on to say that as soon as clearance is given from Kathmandu airport, the planes will take off from Islamabad.
4555.txt:Pictures of Orit Asraf holding a sign at Ben-Gurion Airport Tuesday asking if anybody has information about her missing son Or play as the symbol of the families who are forced to hope for the best without hearing from their loved ones.
4556.txt:An Israeli Boeing-747 returned from Nepal to Israel's Ben Gurion International Airport on Tuesday afternoon, and among its 229 passengers were, all born within the past six weeks to surrogate mothers in Nepal.Some of the babies were with their Israeli parents and others were cared for by Israeli passengers.The infants' arrival completed the evacuation of 26 surrogate Israeli babies from Nepal, where a devastating earthquake on Saturday killed more than 4,000. The rescue process, coupled with widely published photos of the newborns being cradled by Israeli medics on the Tel Aviv tarmac, has thrust Israel's reliance on Nepalese surrogates into the spotlight, revealing a little known link between Nepal and Israel and starting a debate here about the ethics of international surrogacy.Only heterosexual couples can easily employ surrogate mothers in Israel.. For many years, India — where costs are low but the standard of medical care is generally high — was the preferred surrogacy option for Israelis, but a change to the law there in 2013 prevented gay men and couples who had been married for less than two years from engaging surrogate mothers. The shift in the law caught many Israelis midway through the surrogacy process. The Indian women traveled to Nepal to give birth and the Israeli surrogacy agencies then switched their operations from India to Nepal.The first Israeli baby was born to a surrogate mother in Nepal in January 2014, and it is now the destination of choice for Israelis who do not have access to surrogacy in Israel.But while the Israeli government scrambled to evacuate the 26 Israeli newborns and their Israeli parents from Nepal,. The Israeli Attorney General Yehuda Weinstein said he would allowto be flown to Israel to give birth and outgoing Interior Minister Gilad Erdan promised to remove immigration hurdles for the rest. "We have decided to hold off on all the procedures, even if it causes a problem with the Nepalese or Indian governments, so as to bring over the babies as soon as possible," Israeli news sources quoted him as saying on Monday.The ordeal of the infants and their surrogates has dominated the news coverage of the quake here, with some pundits criticizing the use of government funds to send a rescue mission, and others demanding that Israel reevaluate its own surrogacy laws in the wake of the crisis. An opinion piece in the Haaretz newspaper went one step further,writer Alon-Lee Green asked.Officials on Tuesday said they were continuing to explore options for evacuating the pregnant women. Meanwhile, a delegation from the Red Star of David, Israel's national emergency medical response organization, remained on the ground in Katmandu, where Israel has set up a field hospital.Yonatan Yagodovsky, director of the Red Star of David's international department, said that in addition to operating the field hospital and assisting local doctors, the evacuation of the newborn children had been his organization's top priority. On Tuesday, all of the infants underwent medical examinations in Israel, and two remained hospitalized.The future of Israeli surrogacy in Nepal remains up in the air. "The main concern right now is lack of clean water and things like that," said Dana Magdassi, founder of Israel's Lotus Surrogacy Agency. "I'm not going to send someone in for treatment right now, but in one or two months, I think we can definitely reconsider."
4558.txt:The Malaysians who arrived home left Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu on Tuesday.
4559.txt:Planes carrying food and other supplies have been steadily arriving at Kathmandu's small airport, but the aid distribution process remains fairly chaotic, with Nepalese officials having difficulty directing the flow of emergency supplies.
455.txt:Following the earthquake, Qatar Airways announced online it had canceled its flights QR646 and QR650 from Doha to Kathmandu, which were due to depart yesterday as the airport in the capital was closed.
455.txt:However, according to the airline’s online tracker, flights to Kathmandu resumed this morning. Update: Due to ongoing aftershocks, the airport appears to be closed again until this afternoon:
455.txt:Just in: Kathmandu airport shut down till 4pm local time following fresh quake in Nepal, says government. — Gulf News (@gulf_news) April 26, 2015
4571.txt:Back at base camp, several climbers began the long trek down into the valley to the village of Lukla, home to what’s commonly referred to as the most dangerous airport in the world. Filippi stayed until he could no longer lend any help to the sick and injured being evacuated from above. Saikaly was still at base camp as of Wednesday morning, Filippi said.
4574.txt:Renaud Meyer of the UN Development Programme told the BBC that Kathmandu's single-runway airport was struggling to accommodate the rush of aid flights, but teams were delivering supplies as quickly as possible.
4576.txt:Teams of international rescuers and aid workers arrived by the planeful at Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport, but the weather, the influx of help and the small airport’s lack of parking bays caused backups. Ten aircraft were stuck waiting on the tarmac in New Delhi at one point during the day.
457.txt:Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who was attending a summit in Jakarta, tried to rush back home but made it as far as Bangkok where his connecting flight to Kathmandu was canceled because the capital’s international airport was shut down.
4582.txt:"Villagers think the tourists are taking too much of the food," said Amit Rubin, who is based at Kathmandu airport with a team from Magnus International Search & Rescue.
4584.txt:Nepal's only international airport on the outskirts of Kathmandu has been operating around-the-clock to accommodate the arrival of military planes carrying aid.
4585.txt:WFP dedicated staff and emergency members, working on little sleep and nothing more than crackers, have been relocated to the airport where we are arranging the distribution of food and relief hub operations. The challenges we face are minimal compared to those greatly affected.
4587.txt:A UK aid flight carrying 120 British nationals has now left the Nepalese capital Kathmandu, Mr Hammond said. The flight is expected to land at Stansted Airport in the early hours of the morning.
458.txt:With Kathmandu airport reopened, the first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. The first to respond were Nepal’s neighbours — India, China and Pakistan, all of which have been jockeying for influence over the landlocked nation. Still, Nepal, a Hindu majority nation, remains closest to India with which it shares deep political, cultural and religious ties.
458.txt:Mukesh Kafle, the head of the Nepal Electricity Authority, said power has been restored fully to main government offices, the airport and hospitals.
4594.txt:Teams of international rescuers and aid workers arrived by the planeful at Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport, but the weather, the influx of help and the small airport's lack of parking bays caused backups. Ten aircraft were stuck waiting on the tarmac in New Delhi at one point during the day.
4596.txt:Sheridan took to Instagram today to post a picture of himself and his younger brother Zachery sleeping on an airport floor in Kathmandu.
459.txt:More than 800 people were killed in Nepal and 34 in various parts of India as a powerful earthquake measuring 7.9 on the Richter scale rocked the two South Asian countries, resulting in a massive loss of life and property. Most of the fatalities have been reported from the Kathmandu valley though there is little information pouring in from outlying areas of the region. Reports quoting Nepal police say that at least 876 people have died so far.The rescue operations suffered soon after the sunset as power supply in major areas were disrupted due to snapped lines and shutting down of transformers. Reports said at least 18 bodies have been recovered from the world highest peak everest base camps as a strong avalanche was triggered due to the massive earthquake. Rescue operations are underway but reports said some base camps were buried under snow in the Avalanche ,trapping mountaineers. Reports say the Indian Mountaineers in base camp are safe.In April month a large number mountaineers scale heights on everest . Officials details are yet to be received. At least 34 people were killed at different places that shook most of the parts of Northern India today.As of now as many as 23 deaths are reported in quake related incidents in Bihar.while 8 persons died in Uttar Pradesh and three in West Bengal, Home Secretary L C Goyal said. The Centre is in constant touch with affected states", Mr Goyal said. Centre has put the government agencies in full preparedness for providing all needed assistance in the rescue and relief operations in the affected regions.Prime Minister Narendra Modi held an emergency meeting to take stock of the situation arising in India and Nepal. He assured full help in rescue operations. India has rushed NDRF teams to Nepal and affected parts of India.As after shocks continued to jolt both India and Nepal upto late this evening, relief and rescue operations teams had been put on highest alert. Helicopters continued to hover atop various worst affected areas in Nepal.People are in panic in various parts of Bihar due to recurring aftershocks while victims were battling to cope with the devastation.Power lines had been shut down to avert any major tragedy . In Sikkim, the earthquake was felt and reports reaching here said it triggered landslides and rains were lashing areas. Exact details could not be collected. The intensity was severest in Nepal where the epicenter was reported while its intensity was a bit low in India but areas of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, bordering Nepal, were also hit badly.With the tremblor leaving a trail of death and destruction in the Himalayan nation, local TV channels were showing heaps of bodies even as the authorities launched a massive rescue and relief operation. Chaotic scenes were witnessed outside hospitals where wailing relatives were seen searching their kith and kin.Every minute the toll is rising as rescuers with bare hands were trying to rescue trapped persons. No official figure of the death toll is available so far, but channels and various sources are compiling figures and apprehend that casualty figure might cross 1,000. Many of the injured reported to hospitals with broken limbs and bleeding wounds.Reports received from Kathmandu said casualty figures may be many times higher as several buildings had flattened with people feared buried under the debris. Hospitals were flooded with injured. Access to many lanes and by-lanes in the capital city of Kathmandu has been blocked due to huge mound of debris.Relief and rescue operations have been launched to save people trapped in collapsed buildings and historical monuments and temples. Doctors have pitched camps on streets of Kathmandu to give first aid to the injured.In Nepals Lamjung, the epicentre of the quake, many buildings have been flattened. There are reports of cracks developing at the Kathmandu airport. Flights have been diverted to India.Eyewitnesses said Dharahara Tower/Bhimsen Tower, a 19th century nine-storey tall tower in Kathmandu, has collapsed. About 400 people are believed to be trapped.Yoga guru Baba Ramdev, who is currently in Kathmandu, said he heard a major "explosion" like sound soon after the quake and at least five aftershocks have been felt .Prime Minister Narendra Modi held an emergency meeting to review the situation arising from the quake in India and how New Delhi could assist Nepal in its hour of crisis. He also spoke to Nepal Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who is in transit in Bangkok on his way to Kathmandu. MORE UNI TEAM AT-NB CH 1855 -- (UNI) -- C-1-1-DL0177-96027.Xml
4601.txt:media_camera Relief ... US soldiers unload Huey Helicopters from a US Air Force Boeing C-17 Globemaster III after landing at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal. Picture: AP Photo/Niranjan Shrestha
4601.txt:media_camera Foreign aid ... relief material brought in from China lie at the Tribhuvan International airport in Kathmandu, Nepal. Picture: AP Photo/Niranjan Shrestha
4601.txt:International planes loaded with relief supplies have poured into landlocked Nepal, but there have been numerous reports of many getting stuck at Kathmandu’s small airport, and customs officials stopping trucks filled with aid from neighbouring India.
4601.txt:Tribhuvan International Airport has also been closed to heavy planes over concern about the condition of the single runway after the quake and a series of strong aftershocks, said Birendra Prasad Shrestha, the airport’s manager.
4601.txt:“We have issued a notice saying that aircraft with a total weight exceeding 196 tonnes will not be allowed to land at Kathmandu airport,” Shrestha said.
4604.txt:Nepal shuts airport to big jets because of runway damage
4604.txt:Nepal shut its only international airport in Kathmandu to large planes carrying aid on Sunday because of damage to the main runway since last week's devastating earthquake, officials said.
4604.txt:The airport's main runway, which was temporarily closed, was built to handle only medium-size jetliners — not the large military and cargo planes that have been flying in aid supplies, food, medicines, and rescue and humanitarian workers, said Birendra Shrestha, the manager of Tribhuwan International Airport, located on the outskirts of Kathmandu.
4604.txt:"You've got one runway, and you've got limited handling facilities, and you've got the ongoing commercial flights," said Jamie McGoldrick, the U.N. coordinator for Nepal, according to the Associated Press. "You put on top of that massive relief items coming in, the search and rescue teams that have clogged up this airport. And I think once they put better systems in place, I think that will get better."
4604.txt:Some people in remote areas say that relief has yet to reach them, amid reports that aid is piling up at the Kathmandu airport.
4605.txt:It's been 9 days since the Nepal tragedy in which the country witnessed one of the most devastating earthquakes so far in its history. To help this small and landlocked country, generous supplies from around the world are pouring in. The UN's World Food Program is attempting day in and day out to meet food demands. Under such strenuous conditions, Nepal's Customs Department is still working as if it is peacetime. A large pile up of supplies is waiting at the airport to be scrutinized instead of being immediately ferried out to regions in need.
4605.txt:Airport Runaway at risk -Tribhuvan International Airport of capital city Kathmandu has been enduring huge traffic of military carrier planes. Thought there was no sign of any cracks in the runway's inspection; government wants to take no chance with runway's conditions as it's the only lifeline for foreign aid. A recent notice to airport staff prohibits the landing of any plane exceeding 196 tonnes. #Nature
4606.txt:As the plane carrying the team touched down at the Kathmandu airport, two other planes carrying rescue teams from the United States, Singapore, Israel and Pakistan also arrived, forming long lines in the lobby of the terminal waiting to collect their rescue gear and luggage.
4606.txt:At the airport, the Tzu Chi team contacted the coordinators of the local health authorities and was expected to offer surgery, physician and emergency services the following day in the disaster area.
4611.txt:But as the New York Times reports, relief supplies are piled high at the Kathmandu airport, and desperately needed food and medicine is not reaching the victims as intended.
4611.txt:Relief supplies for earthquake victims have been piling up at the airport and in warehouses here because of bureaucratic interference by Nepali authorities who insist that standard customs inspections and other procedures be followed, even in an emergency, Western government and aid organization officials said on Sunday. “The bottleneck was the fact that the bureaucratic procedures were just so heavy,” Jamie McGoldrick, the United Nations resident coordinator, said in an interview. “So many layers of government and so many departments involved, so many different line ministries involved. We don’t need goods sitting in Kathmandu warehouses. We don’t need goods sitting at the airport. We need them up in the affected areas.” The United States ambassador to Nepal, Peter W. Bodde, said he had spoken to Nepal’s prime minister, Sushil Koirala, about the issue and “he assured me that all the red tape will be stopped.” [...] “Everyone was panicked, everything was closed, and we all tried to save our own lives,” Purna Bahadur Khadka, joint general secretary of the governing Nepali Congress, said in an interview at the prime minister’s official residence. “And some critics can say there was no proper coordination for the first two days.” But sometime over the past week, the government revived, Mr. Khadka said. And that is when, Western aid officials say, government officials began insisting that an entire list of rules must be followed, even for emergency relief supplies. Mr. Bodde said it was a problem that the United States intended to help fix, as a huge C-17 transport plane unloaded a UH-17 helicopter and, separately, four Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft flew into Nepal on Sunday to help carry supplies from Kathmandu to devastated rural areas. “That’s why we’re here today,” Mr. Bodde said as the C-17 rolled to a stop. But even that help had been delayed, according to Marine Lt. Col Edward Powers, the helicopter pilot. “We’ve been sitting on a ramp in Okinawa for the last 72 hours” waiting for permission to land at Kathmandu, Colonel Powers said at the airport.
4612.txt:The group arrived at the Thibhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu last Friday night from Lukla in a specially chartered helicopter after being advised by UTM vice-chancellor Prof Wahid omar.
4612.txt:Azim, 27, when met at the airport said they were still determined to complete their expedition after the group's first attempt in April last year was cancelled, following the death of 18 Sherpas (mountain guides) due to a major avalanche.
4614.txt:Food for 3.5 million people, 400,000 tents needed. Quake toll nears 7,000, fresh tremors rock Himalayan nation.Fresh tremors rocked parts of Nepal on Saturday, triggering landslides as the death toll in last Saturday's earthquake neared 7,000 and protests mounted over relief not reaching several affected areas.A 5.1-magnitude aftershock shook Barpak village in Gorkha district near the epicentre of the powerful 7.9-magnitude temblor that had caused widespread destruction. The second aftershock also led to landslides, adding to the woes of the quake-hit people, many of whom have been forced to stay in the open.Angry people took to the streets alleging the relief material was finding its way to the black market and prices of essential items had also been steeply hiked. Many areas of the Kathmandu Valley are still deprived of necessary food items, which compelled people to resort to sloganeering against the authorities.The number of Indians who died in the earthquake are 48 with 10 reported injured brought to various hospitals, according to information released by Nepal's Home Ministry on Saturday.Aid and assistance in both cash and kind is pouring in but due to the difficult geographical terrain, it has been a challenge to carry out rescue and distribution of relief materials.Officials said there was just one water filter received from outside. The government still needs 400,000 tents, said the home ministry.People are afraid to return home fearing quakes. Over 150 aftershocks have jolted the nation within this one week. Over 6 lakh people have left Kathmandu. Archaeologists said it will take a decade to restore damaged monuments in Kathmandu.The Nepal government has created a fund of $2 billion for reconstruction. International communities, including the UN, have called for assistance for Nepal. At least 29 nations are engaged with rescue and relief works with various aid related assistance. More than 3.5 million people are in need of food and over 8 million are directly affected by the quake.Bureaucracy at Kathmandu airport was holding up vital relief supplies, said UN Resident Representative Jamie McGoldrick. He said material was piling up at the airport instead of being ferried out. Finance Minister Ram Sharan Mahat said, "We have received things like tuna and mayonnaise. What good are those? We need grains, salt."
4615.txt:“I was told rescue crews are stuck at the airport. They don’t have food and water. I think I can do more good here.”
4620.txt:Supplies held up at airport Customs inspections at Kathmandu airport are holding up vital relief supplies for earthquake survivors in Nepal, a UN official said yesterday, as the death toll from the disaster a week ago passed 6,600. United Nations Resident Representative Jamie McGoldrick said the government must loosen its normal customs restrictions to deal with the increasing flow of relief material now pouring in from abroad and piling up at the airport. But the government, complaining it has received unneeded supplies such as tuna and mayonnaise, insisted its customs agents had to check all emergency shipments.
4624.txt:Planes loaded with relief supplies from around the world were pouring into landlocked Nepal, but there have been numerous reports of many getting stuck at Kathmandu`s small international airport, and customs officials stopping trucks filled with aid from crossing into the country from neighbouring India.
4624.txt:The airport has been closed to heavy planes because of concerns about the condition of the single runway after the quake and a series of strong aftershocks, said Birendra Prasad Shrestha, manager of the Tribhuvan International Airport.
4624.txt:"We have issued a notice saying that aircraft with a total weight exceeding 196 tonnes will not be allowed to land at Kathmandu airport," Shrestha told AFP.
462.txt:Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who was attending a summit in Jakarta, tried to rush back home but made it as far as Bangkok where his connecting flight to Kathmandu was cancelled because the capital's international airport was shut for commercial flights.
4630.txt:Abi, who was flown back to Stansted Airport along with 100 other Britons on Thursday, had travelled out with Voluntary Services Overseas (VSO) in February, to work in the Nepalese village of Jharawashi.
4635.txt:"We are facing huge logistical difficulties. As well as roads being closed, aftershocks have prevented planes from landing at Katmandu airport. On the first day, our staff counted at least one aftershock every 20 minutes. The first days after a disaster are the most critical. It is in this time that we can work the most effectively on traumas, fractures and injuries sustained by those crushed by rubble.
4637.txt:Sniffer dog handler Birgit Ostendorf of Germany’s NGO organisation International Search and Rescue (ISAR- Germany) prepares her dog ‘Cooper’ to board their flight to Nepal from Frankfurt airport, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic
4637.txt:Indians fight during a queue for an aircraft back to their country outside Nepal’s Tribhuvan International Airport a day after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic
4637.txt:Tourists gather inside Nepal’s Tribhuvan International Airport a day after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic
4637.txt:Workers of the German Red Cross (DRK) prepare a load of humanitarian aid for victims of the earthquake in Nepal, in front of an aircraft at Schoenefeld airport outside Berlin April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic
4637.txt:Victims of Saturday’s earthquake rest inside an Indian Air Force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic
4637.txt:People wait outside the departure terminal at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015, following the April 25 earthquake. — Reuters pic
4637.txt:Around two dozen countries have been helping in the relief effort. And while the international rescue teams have been welcomed by the Nepalese authorities, they have also created a logjam at the country’s only international airport on the outskirts of Kathmandu.
4637.txt:Authorities said yesterday that the Tribhuvan International Airport has been closed to heavy planes over concern about the condition of the single runway after the quake and a series of strong aftershocks.
4637.txt:But although airport managers issued a notice saying that aircraft with a total weight exceeding 196 tonnes would not be allowed to land, it did not prevent the arrival of the giant US planes.
4638.txt:“We’ve been sitting on a ramp in Okinawa for the last 72 hours,” waiting for permission to land at Kathmandu, Colonel Powers said at the airport.
4638.txt:Yet Mr. McGoldrick said that delays were occurring not only at the Kathmandu airport but at border crossings with India and even at district headquarters across the country, and Nepalese journalists have quoted customs officials at the Indian border crossings as affirming that relief supplies needed to “go through strict inspections.”
4638.txt:Also Sunday, civil aviation authorities announced that they had closed the Kathmandu airport to the largest jets, or those weighing more than 196 metric tons, for fear they could damage the runways.
4638.txt:“We feared that the possible damage of our only international airport would invite further problems in the post-quake scenario, so the landing of heavy planes has now been restricted,” said Birendra Prasad Shrestha, the airport’s acting general manager.
463.txt:Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who was attending a summit in Jakarta, tried to rush back home but made it as far as Bangkok where his connecting flight to Kathmandu was cancelled because the capital's international airport was shut for commercial flights.
4641.txt:KATHMANDU, Nepal -- A week after a devastating earthquake leveled many areas of Nepal, the U.S. military is sending up to 500 troops, plus aircraft and equipment, to help deliver supplies that have been stuck at the tiny country's main airport.
4643.txt:Nepal’s only international airport was closed Sunday to large military and cargo planes flying in relief material to prevent damage to the airport’s only runway.
4643.txt:Birendra Shrestha, manager of Tribhuwan International Airport, located on the outskirts of Kathmandu, said the runway was built to handle only medium-size jetliners, but was deteriorating due to large military and cargo planes flying in quake relief material for over a week.
4645.txt:The team arrives as criticism mounted over a pile-up of relief material at Kathmandu airport, the only international gateway to the Himalayan nation, because of customs inspections.
4645.txt:Kennedy also warned against bottlenecks at Kathmandu airport, saying: "What you don't want to do is build up a mountain of supplies" that block space for planes or more supplies.
4648.txt:There have been numerous reports of foreign aid getting stuck at Kathmandu’s small international airport or even turned back at the border with India by customs officials.
4648.txt:The country’s only international airport has also struggled to cope, with flights carrying aid being turned away because there was no space to park the plane.
4648.txt:Amos said access to the airport was improving, and the UN was looking at bringing more aid into the landlocked country overland from India.
4652.txt:http://www.irinnews.org/fr/report/101438/inside-the-logistics-hub-at-kathmandu-s-airport
4652.txt:Inside the logistics hub at Kathmandu's airport
4652.txt:Médecins sans Frontières’ new 54-bed hospital for Nepal weighs 35 tons and is currently in scores of boxes sitting in a giant tent – known as a mobile storage unit – in the humanitarian cargo area of Kathmandu airport.
4652.txt:Clearing the airport
4652.txt:The role of the staging area is not just to safely store supplies but to decongest the airport. The aim is to have humanitarian cargo move off the apron as quickly as possible and directly into WFP’s storage facility.
4652.txt:“The airport is overloaded. We don’t want to have flights coming in stopped. We can handle the congestion. It’s better to have it here,” Beaumont said.
4652.txt:“People just dump at the apron and go. Our role starts from the airport side to here, applying the skills from the commercial world to relief operations, to smooth the entire flow,” he added.
4656.txt:http://worldtribunepakistan.com/2015/05/03/nepal-quake-airport-customs-holding-up-aid-relief-un/
4656.txt:Nepal quake: Airport customs holding up aid relief – UN – World Tribune Pakistan
4656.txt:Many people are yet to receive the aid, which is piling up at Kathmandu airport, a week after the 7.8-magnitude earthquake on 25 April.
4659.txt:Planes loaded with relief supplies from around the world were pouring into landlocked Nepal, but there have been numerous reports of many getting stuck at Kathmandu's small international airport, and customs officials stopping trucks filled with aid from crossing into the country from neighbouring India.
4659.txt:The airport has been closed to heavy planes because of concerns about the condition of the single runway after the quake and a series of strong aftershocks, said Birendra Shrestha, manager of the Tribhuvan International Airport.
4660.txt:Lifting the gloom on a day marred by more aftershocks that kept people in Nepal on edge and a rising death toll that topped the 7,200-mark, rescuers on Sunday pulled out three more survivors from under the debris of their homes who were miraculously alive eight days after the quake. Fresh aftershocks, including one measuring 4.3 on the Richter Scale, sent a new wave of panic among people, most of whom have been staying in the open battling bad weather and scarce food and water supplies following the country's worst earthquake in 80 years. At least 7,250 people have been confirmed dead from the 7.9-magnitude April 25 quake while the number of injured has risen to 14,267, with Finance Minister Ram Sharan Mahat saying the death toll is expected to climb "much higher". "The aftershocks have not receded, and we expect the final casualty numbers to climb much higher," said Mahat, portraying a desperately bleak situation in his comments at an event on the sidelines of an Asian Development Bank meeting in Baku. “It is with great pain and sadness that I stand before you to present the case of my country Nepal which now remains devastated," he said, adding that the quake had caused "incalculable human loss and suffering, with millions of people rendered homeless." Officials said an entire village was carried away by the avalanche and many more people are believed to have died. Meanwhile, hopes of finding more survivors were rekindled as rescuers pulled out two men and a woman alive from under mounds of debris, eight days after the devastating quake struck the Himalayan nation and three days after a teenage boy and a woman were saved. They were found near the mountainous Syauli village and have been taken to a nearby military hospital for treatment. The district — located about 60 km west from here — is the worst hit by the 7.9-magnitude temblor, with the highest number of casualties. Nepal had said chances of finding survivors buried in the rubble are "extremely slim", with Home Ministry spokesman Laxmi Dhakal saying "it will be a miracle if anyone is found alive" though he denied that administration has given up yet and that rescue teams were continuing to look.At least 38 Indians are among 54 foreigners killed in the quake that left a trail of devastation and suffering, flattening buildings and uprooting electric poles and trees. Police said 48 foreigners, including 10 Indians, were injured and 82 foreign nationals missing. Separately, 51 bodies, including of six foreigners, in the popular Langtang trekking region have been pulled out by police, a report said and quoted an official that about 100 foreigners might still be missing in the area. Twelve stranded trekkers, including an Indian national, were rescued today from Makalu Base Camp in eastern Nepal and flown to Kathmandu. Nepal parties have agreed that all those interested in carrying out relief work in the country can start at once, without having to route the process through the government. A report released by the United Nation's humanitarian agency OCHA (Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs) said the number of houses destroyed in the country is over 1,60,000, nearly twice the number of households wrecked in the 1934s deadly temblor that has been the country's worst disaster of all times.The UN urged Nepal to relax customs controls which it says are holding up deliveries of aid coming from countries around the world from reaching the survivors. Nepal had a duty to provide faster customs clearance for relief supplies, said UN humanitarian chief Valerie Amos, who along with the EU's Commissioner for Humanitarian Aid and Crisis Management, Christos Stylianides called on Prime Minister Sushil Koirala and reaffirmed the commitment of the international community to support the country. "A disaster of such magnitude would test the capacities of any government in the world," said Stylianides. The country's only main airport the Tribhuvan International Airport has been closed for large aircraft due to runway damage that forced authorities to take such a step in the middle of the calamity. The runway was built to handle only medium-size jetliners, not the large military and cargo planes that have been flying emergency supplies to Nepal, said manager of the airport Birendra Shrestha. Domestic and international emergency response teams are racing against time and odds to rush in medical aid to people in worst-affected areas of the quake-hit country, including through flying in mobile clinics to far-flung villages and providing in psychological support to traumatised victims of the tragedy. Nepal lifted import taxes on tarpaulins and tents on Friday but home ministry spokesman Laxmi Prasad Dhakal said all goods arriving from abroad had to be inspected. Remote mountainous areas in the country have suffered "almost total devastation" from the powerful quake, aid agencies have warned, even as relief slowly began to reach far-flung regions. — PTI
4661.txt:A statement on Saturday said that Prime Minister Sushil Koirala inspected the central command post at Tribhuvan International Airport and it showed a pathetic picture of aid status.
4661.txt:During the briefing, army officials told Koirala that relief materials received by Nepal was below their expectation and very few relief materials have been stocked in airport premises.
4662.txt:•3 forklift trucks and heavy lifting machinery to help cargo move quickly through Kathmandu airport operated by the World Food Programme
4662.txt:“The arrival of our specialist heavy lifting equipment will allow Kathmandu airport to unload aid cargo much more quickly and speed up the delivery of aid supplies across Nepal.”
4662.txt:•a £5 million package to provide a further team of 30 trauma medics, logistical support and equipment to ease congestion at Kathmandu Airport and humanitarian experts in water, health and sanitation and
4679.txt:A V-22 Osprey sits on the tarmac at Tribhuvan International Airport in Katmandu, May 6. Sean McLain/The Wall Street Journal
4679.txt:Back at the airport, the Ospreys refueled and took on another load of tarps and prepared to head farther north, to a small helicopter landing pad in the mountains.
4690.txt:He said the NEOC will be housed in a well-equipped and high magnitude earthquake-tolerant building alongside a big and wide road and near the airport.
470.txt:/ Sleeping in the streets and shell-shocked, Nepalese cremated the dead and dug through rubble for the missing Sunday, a day after a massive Himalayan earthquake killed more than 2,500 people. Aftershocks tormented them, making buildings sway and sending panicked Kathmandu residents running into the streets.The cawing of crows mixed with terrified screams as the worst of the aftershocks - magnitude 6.7 - pummeled the capital city. It came as planeloads of supplies, doctors and relief workers from neighboring countries began arriving in this poor Himalayan nation. No deaths or injuries were reported from the early Sunday afternoon quake, but it took an emotional toll."The aftershocks keep coming ... so people don't know what to expect," said Sanjay Karki, Nepal country head for global aid agency Mercy Corps. "All the open spaces in Kathmandu are packed with people who are camping outdoors. When the aftershocks come you cannot imagine the fear. You can hear women and children crying."Saturday's magnitude 7.8 earthquake spread horror from Kathmandu to small villages and to the slopes of Mount Everest, triggering an avalanche that buried part of the base camp packed with foreign climbers preparing to make their summit attempts. At least 18 people died there and 61 were injured, according to the Nepal Mountaineering Association.The earthquake centered outside Kathmandu, the capital, was the worst to hit the South Asian nation in over 80 years. It destroyed swaths of the oldest neighborhoods of Kathmandu, and was strong enough to be felt all across parts of India, Bangladesh, China 's region of Tibet and Pakistan.Nepal authorities said Sunday that at least 2,430 people died in that country alone, not including the 18 dead in the avalanche. Another 61 people died from the quake in India and a few in other neighboring countries.At least 1,152 people died in Kathmandu, and the number of injured nationwide was upward of 5,900. With search and rescue efforts far from over, it was unclear how much the death toll would rise.But outside of the oldest neighborhoods, many in Kathmandu were surprised by how few modern structures - the city is largely a collection of small, poorly constructed brick apartment buildings - collapsed in the quake. While aid workers cautioned that many buildings could have sustained serious structural damage, it was also clear that the death toll would have been far higher had more buildings caved in.Aid workers also warned that the situation could be far worse near the epicenter. The U.S. Geological Survey said the quake was centered near Lamjung, about 80 kilometers (50 miles) northwest of Kathmandu, in the Gorkha district.Roads to that area were blocked by landslides, hindering rescue teams, said chief district official Prakash Subedi. Teams were trekking through mountain trails to reach remote villages, and helicopters would also be deployed, he said by telephone.Local aid worker Matt Darvas said in a statement issued by his group, World Vision, that he heard that many remote mountain villages near the epicenter may have been completely buried by rock falls.The villages "are literally perched on the sides of large mountain faces and are made from simple stone and rock construction," Darvas said. "Many of these villages are only accessible by 4WD and then foot, with some villages hours and even entire days' walks away from main roads at the best of times."Nepal's worst recorded earthquake in 1934 measured 8.0 and all but destroyed the cities of Kathmandu, Bhaktapur and Patan.With people fearing more quakes, tens of thousands of Nepalese spent Saturday night outside under chilly skies, or in cars and public buses. They were jolted awake by strong aftershocks early Sunday."There were at least three big quakes at night and early morning. How can we feel safe? This is never-ending and everyone is scared and worried," said Kathmandu resident Sundar Sah. "I hardly got much sleep. I was waking up every few hours and glad that I was alive."As day broke, rescuers aided by international teams set out to dig through rubble of buildings - concrete slabs, bricks, iron beams, wood - to look for survivors.In the Kalanki neighborhood of Kathmandu, police rescuers finally extricated a man lying under a dead body, both of them buried beneath a pile of concrete slabs and iron beams. Before his rescue, his family members stood nearby, crying and praying. Police said the man's legs and hips were totally crushed.Hundreds of people in Kalanki gathered around the collapsed Lumbini Guest House, once a three-story budget hotel and restaurant frequented by Nepalese. They watched with fear and anticipation as a single backhoe dug into the rubble.Police officer RP Dhamala, who was coordinating the rescue efforts, said they had already pulled out 12 people alive and six dead. He said rescuers were still searching for about 20 people believed to be trapped, but had heard no cries, taps or noises for a while.Most areas were without power and water. The United Nations said hospitals in the Kathmandu Valley were overcrowded, and running out of emergency supplies and space to store corpses.Plumes of smoke, meanwhile, rose above the capital as friends, relatives and others gathered by the river to quickly cremate loved ones' remains.Most shops in Kathmandu were shut; only fruit vendors and pharmacies seemed to be doing business."More people are coming now," fruit seller Shyam Jaiswal said. "They cannot cook so they need to buy something they can eat raw."Jaiswal said stocks were running out, and more shipments were not expected for at least a week, but added, "We are not raising prices. That would be illegal, immoral profit."The quake will likely put a huge strain on the resources of this impoverished country best known for Everest, the highest mountain in the world. The economy of Nepal, a nation of 27.8 million people, relies heavily on tourism, principally trekking and Himalayan mountain climbing.With Kathmandu airport reopened, the first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. The first to respond were Nepal's neighbors - India, China and Pakistan, all of which have been jockeying for influence over the landlocked nation. Nepal remains closest to India, with which it shares deep political, cultural and religious ties.India suffered its own losses from the quake, with at least 61 people killed there and dozens injured. Sunday's aftershock was also widely felt in the country, and local news reports said metro trains in New Delhi and Kolkata were briefly shut down when the shaking started.Other countries sending support Sunday included the United Arab Emirates, Germany and France.After the chaos of Saturday - when little organized rescue and relief was seen - there was more order on Sunday as rescue teams fanned out across the city.Workers were sending out tents and relief goods in trucks and helicopters and setting up shelters, said disaster management official Rameshwar Dangal. Mukesh Kafle, the head of the Nepal Electricity Authority, said power was restored to main government offices, the airport and hospitals.Among the destroyed buildings in Kathmandu was the nine-story Dharahara Tower, a Kathmandu landmark built by Nepal's royal rulers as a watchtower in the 1800s and a UNESCO-recognized historical monument. It was reduced to rubble and there were reports of people trapped underneath.The Kathmandu Valley is listed as a World Heritage site. The Buddhist stupas, public squares and Hindu temples are some of the most well-known sites in Kathmandu, and now some of the most deeply mourned.Nepali journalist and author Shiwani Neupane tweeted: "The sadness is sinking in. We have lost our temples, our history, the places we grew up."Con InformaciÃ³n de
4720.txt:LOUISVILLE, Ky. (WDRB) -- Many of us have seen the horrific images of the earthquake that struck Nepal on Saturday, April 25. As of this writing, the earthquake killed more than 7,000 people and left countless more injured. It even triggered an avalanche that killed several on Mount Everest, the world's tallest peak.Roger Hoagland, a Christian missionary based in Louisville, decided to help. He arrived in the capitol city of Kathmandu at 8:30 a.m. on Tuesday, April 28 -- just three days after the earthquake -- and was among one of the first relief teams to hit the ground in Nepal.After spending one week heading up a medical team there, an emotional Hoagland spoke by phone from Kathmandu with WDRB's Travis Kircher. He talked about the some of the horrors he's witnessed, some of the dangers still present, and how he manages to bring hope to people who have lost everything.This interview took place on May 5, 2015.Yes. I'm a graduate of Fern Creek High School. I graduated in 1972. I graduated from the University of Louisville in 1975 – got my Master's Degree at U of L. I went right into education. I taught at the public school level and then at the private school for the last 25 years. I was the administrator of Evangel Christian School. Also, I served as the mission director for Evangel – it's a large ministry in Louisville.So when the earthquake occurred, I was in a mission. I was in Turkey, and I just felt a prompting to head to Nepal – and I've been there two other occasions, two other years – to lead medical teams up in the mountains. So I was familiar with it. We have assisted with earthquake relief on four other occasions. One in China in 2006. One hundred thousand died in that earthquake. We brought food into the mountains and other assistance. And also three separate trips to Haiti. We were the first to be on a commercial flight into Haiti after the earthquake, so I was somewhat familiar with that process.So I arrived, as I said, just under three days from when the earthquake hit on April 25.First of all, many of the roads were blocked off, and I guess the most frightening thing to me, when you see electric wires on the ground, you think, ‘There's no way we should pass near that.' Well, in this case, you saw tens of thousands of wires down, so I was a little uncomfortable moving around the city.I was impressed with how the people of Nepal work together to try to rescue and uncover in much debris in the area.I was stunned by the leaning buildings – and what happens in this case, you have so many that come down completely, so you just see a mound of rubble. But then you see many that have cracks and are just leaning a little bit. And after a while, day after day, you just kind of forget that they are there.The realization hit me hard the other day. I walked past one, and I was on a sidewalk and I went to a location. Two days later, I came back and I could not pass through that. The building had completely come onto the sidewalk, so had I been there, I would have been killed. So that's something. These buildings are just ready to come down.I would say another thing you observe is that it seems like 25 percent of the buildings are either destroyed or need to be demolished. Another thing I noticed when I arrived is the people out in the streets. As I said, I've been to Nepal before, and have never seen so many people on the streets. And I understood after talking to different ones, that they were afraid to go back into their homes. They had enough sense to know, ‘If my home has numerous cracks in it, it's not safe to be there.' So fields are just flooded with people with makeshift tents and tarps. They're lying on the sidewalk area and everywhere at night.My flight was an early flight for rescue teams. Not many were here at all. But now the teams – and I believe there's 20 nations represented with rescue and relief teams, and they are doing an excellent job. And let me just say, I am so proud of the United States because we stand tall there with our people. You see them on the street so prevalent here.I witnessed the rescue of two people after five days, which was extraordinary. A group from Los Angeles – they were leading the way with that. What happened, they were walking past a building – and again, five days – and they heard the noise of a man, so they started trying to dig him out, which is a frightening operation, because where they're going under, the building can collapse more. So people are really at risk doing that. So the crowd gathered and got larger and larger and the rumor spread that someone was alive. And after seeing so much death, it became just a very exciting moment, so when they pulled him out and put him on a stretcher, it was just a beautiful thing. The crowd erupted in applause, and then a second one was rescued, and it was an exciting day.The one boy looked like he was maybe 25. He looked to be in pretty rough condition physically. That's the one they spent so much time trying to rescue.If you can imagine two rows of servicemen from Nepal combined with United States rescue men from Los Angeles. They just joined arms in these two long lines so people would not push through, because they knew that someone was alive after five days, which was remarkable. I was there perhaps 45 minutes to an hour, and the crowd – just a ballpark figure – was maybe 2,000 people waiting. And rumor spread quickly that someone was found alive. Then you see a group of doctors and medics running ahead, right through the middle of the two lines of servicemen. And right behind them, they're carrying the stretcher of this boy. Again, he looked about 25, very bruised.And then just a little later, there was a man, I would say around 30, that was dressed in army fatigues. But he was also rescued. I don't know the story behind him.Most are, I believe, presumed dead now because of the length of time, but you still have hope.But I will say that, what is troubling to me as a parent – I have four sons – is to walk by…if I walk from here, where I am now, across town, I will pass perhaps 100-200 mounds of rubble. Maybe more. In each of those, it's filled with bodies that haven't been taken out. So as a parent, if you can imagine walking by these and knowing my children or my mother is under there, it's just an overwhelming thing emotionally.And that is everywhere. I'll give you an example. There is a tower that was the largest tower in Kathmandu. And it was an observation deck. But it was an iconic building, very similar to the Eiffel Tower for Paris or the Statue of Liberty for the U.S. So this tower – you would see it in postcards. Anyway, when the earthquake occurred on Saturday just before noon, there were 250 people on top of that tower, or inside of it. The tower came down almost totally, and out of those, they recovered 40 bodies. So one person out of 250 survived that fall. So there are 209 people in that big pile of rubble which I pass. And that is the story all over the city – that they just do not have the equipment to recover the remains. It's just not there. And the task is just too big by hand. And when I say ‘rubble,' some of the ‘rubble' is tree stories high.Something else: As a Christian, we in the United States – most of us – worship on Sunday. They worship here on Saturday, and this occurred right when the churches were in service – in the middle of their service. I was at a location today where there were 75 people worshiping on the seventh floor of a seven-floor building, and most everything under them was clear. People were out shopping or doing whatever for the day – Saturday was their holiday – but this group of worshipers was on the seventh floor. So when the building came down, fortunately, 45 survived injured, [but] 30 died. That is common in many of the churches throughout the city. Christianity is a minority. But nevertheless, it was a very tragic thing for those going to church that day.Well, that's a good question. What I have found is the modern buildings here, most of those stood tall. You can look at a street and see four or five buildings that look untouched, and right next to them will be this big pile of rubble. What was explained to me: the old construction, they used this type of brick that is made of clay. From the outside, it looks like a strong brick, but if you throw it down, it turns into sand, or powder. So that's what happened. Many of these buildings were built with that type of brick, so when they came down from the top, it's just a domino effect.But it amazes me to look at streets where you see some buildings without even a crack.I've been working in a hospital almost every day, bringing food to families and ministering to patients, and the hospital is probably 9-10 stories, and it's frightening just to look on the outside. You have cracks throughout the structure. I'm hoping the foundation is good, but the façade is terrible. And yet, they're continuing to operate there as a full-service hospital.And the need is great. The hallways have been full of victims – and I've worked with, mainly, the earthquake victims. And it's just heartbreaking. There's a lady there that's, just as an example, who is just grieving. She's in pain. Her leg is broken. Her arm is broken. But she's also lost a son. So the emotional toll on her…I've been working, also, with a little girl whose parents cannot even afford to come visit their daughter. They live in a remote area. She has fractures in the bottom of her back. She just had surgery and I've been with her almost every day. Another lady was grieving…and she had lost her son and husband. So when they lose family members, they also lost their home. So it is quite overwhelming.The average income here is about $1,500 U.S. equivalents per year. So very, very poor people – so to start over is a very huge challenge the them.Oh my. I have an interpreter that travels with me. Some of these -- I would say 20 percent do know English. The interpreter helps me there. What I do is I reach out and I touch them. I give them a hug. I shake their hand and I show with my expression how deeply sorry I am, and have the interpreter to help me. That's about all that I can do.But we can do more. If you give them something while you're doing that, I believe that is a comfort. You present them food. You present them money. It's just a little ray of hope that somebody I don't even know is trying to bless my life. So that's part of what I feel I need to do while I'm here – and I'm trying to do – is just be a light in this dark time for them. But it is – it's hard to know what to say. But the Bible speaks that ‘when you've done it to the least of these, my brethren,' you've done it to the Lord, or if you give a cup of water, it's as doing it unto the Lord. I think it's that same principle. We don't know these people. We're not necessarily trying to convert, but we're trying to love them, and be a light and an encouragement to them.Yes – oh yes. Yes. Well, I got out of bed because I thought that somebody had broken into my room, it so scared me. It was just that the beds were moving and there was cracking noise all around me. I guess that was the most frightening one. But there has been, probably while I have been here, three or four or five, that you could just feel the trembling. Nothing serious. But where they are of concern are for the buildings that are unstable and already in very poor condition. That's where you could set them off. Thankfully, not a lot of people are in those buildings. They're using wisdom. But they are continuing to walk right by the buildings, and I think with the idea that they're gonna come straight down to the bottom, but that's not always the case. As I told you before, sometimes they go sideways. That's a significant concern.Yesterday I felt one. I didn't feel it much, but a lady spoke to me. She said, ‘Did you feel that? Did you feel that?' It was in the afternoon yesterday.Well I think on the ground level, a great amount of food has been brought in. In fact, I think that is the challenge. Our group from Louisville is taking tons of this up into the mountains where a lot of aid has not reached these areas. They're devastated. So I would say here the food is good and these transport planes are bringing in tons and tons of food. And they certainly need that.But I think they also need money. Because if you look at the long-term, they're going to have to rebuild. They're going to have to find a place to rent. They're going to have to get strong tents if they're going to endure months like this instead of a tarp. And so I just – I wish I had more money to hand out, and honestly I've handed out so much, because it's one of those situations where you see the needs, and how do you say no? [HOAGLAND'S VOICE FALTERS.] They're everywhere. And you just want to bless – and money works. And they know more than we know what they need. That money does buy them necessities. They know the stores to go to – and there are many stores that are open – that sell the items cheaper than we would find them. So I think people that send in money to these organizations are doing a good thing. They need money.It's not gonna be a quick fix. It's gonna take years to re-establish these communities. Hopefully they build them with modern security techniques that they'll be more stable, because this is, of course, an earthquake-prone area. In 1990s, they had a very large one here.I have not been in the United States since this has happened, so I can't say. I haven't seen news from the United States, but from what I can see from our church, the response was terrific. They rallied together and they're bringing money into Nepal. The team will be here tomorrow morning and have brought in – I don't know the exact figure, but I know it's over $20,000. I was very thankful for that. So I do think people in the United States have this sense of a great need, and hopefully they will contribute. This is a time to step up to the plate.And I believe the U.S., more than any other country, I'll say, except Israel – Israel I have seen in these disasters step up very tall and are quick to be there and quick to set up hospitals. But the United States, I would say, they stand up the tallest as far as bringing in aid and equipment needed.That's one of the things, I will say Travis, there is not enough equipment here. I have been all around the city in-depth, and I have seen perhaps 8-10 large pieces of equipment to move the debris. But if they United States if that happened – in Louisville – we would have hundreds and hundreds of pieces. Perhaps thousands. So they're just short of equipment. And that's going to take time to bring that in from mainland China or India or wherever they can bring those large pieces in, the bulldozers they need and the backhoes and things like that. They just don't have enough.And the airport is woefully inadequate. One runway. And so to get all these – and space for nine planes, smaller planes. It's just not used to the traffic that will be required to come in and bring all the aid. It's just not big enough. But they're doing well. They're pushing some domestic flights back, and I've heard stories where the planes sometimes circle for hours and have to go to India to refuel, then return to Kathmandu and hope they can land. So that's good and bad: the good news is there's a lot of aid and rescue workers going in.Well, I think it's what we should do. Again, it goes back to that philosophy, which is a scripture: if you've done it to the least of these my brethren, you've done it unto me. I think it doesn't matter who they are – if we do know them, if we do not – if there's a need, we try to help. I think that's the spirit of America. It's certainly the spirit of Christianity, to reach out and bless people you don't know. It's a joy for me. I come home, or get into my hotel, and I just feel energized every day in the afternoons when I come in after a long day. It's just, ‘Thank you Lord for my family that's alive in America. Thank you for this opportunity to serve.' It truly is a joy.
4721.txt:Having been registered missing by the Red Cross, they were airlifted from Talu by helicopter and flew into Manchester Airport on Saturday.
4722.txt:a £5 million package to provide a further team of 30 trauma medics, logistical support and equipment to ease congestion at Kathmandu Airport and humanitarian experts in water, health and sanitation. DFID has also deployed a team of more than 60 UK International Search and Rescue responders and specialist rescue dogs;
4734.txt:Once again, as has been true in so many previous natural disasters, the State of Israel has responded to the devastating earthquake in Nepal and its aftershocks, which have killed an estimated 7,000 people and wounded uncounted thousands more, leaving destroyed buildings, roads and airport landing strips across the country.
4734.txt:An Israel Defense Forces delegation arrived on the Monday after the Nepal earthquake to set up a field hospital. When a similar field hospital was set up in Haiti in 2004, NBC medical correspondent Nancy Snyderman filed several reports on how effective, compassionate and appreciated the field hospital was, having been set up in hard-to-reach and hardest-hit areas while rescue crews from other nations were hung up in red tape at overwhelmed airports.
473.txt:Caritas Nepal is sending local help from India because Kathmandu Airport is closed, and Caritas Aotearoa New Zealand is appealing for donations to provide relief.
4741.txt:The U.S. is flying in hygiene kits but sourcing other aid locally. Air Force personnel will soon start to help with logistics at Kathmandu's airport to improve its efficiency, officials said.
4764.txt:The jet will land at Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport to take the Indonesians home. Those scheduled for repatriation were staying at a guest house in the capital on Tuesday.
4765.txt:With that farewell, Eric made his way back to Kathmandu. He was at the airport and within minutes of departure from Nepal when the earth began heaving. A short time later, he received the terrible news.
4765.txt:On the morning of April 25, Eric awaited his flight home to Los Angeles at the airport in Kathmandu. He couldn't wait to see his wife, Blair, and 9-year-old daughter Cortez.
4765.txt:The helicopter traversed peaks and made its way back to the airport at Lukla. Eric waited for a little over an hour at a makeshift police station, where officers sat at a wobbly desk with helicopter seats and handwrote death certificates.
4765.txt:At the Kathmandu airport, an ambulance rushed Tom's body to a morgue at the U.S. Embassy to be prepared for cremation.
476.txt:Nepal races to save victims A Nepalese villager injured in an earthquake holds her son as they sit inside an Indian Army helicopter after being evacuated from Lapu in Gorkha. Picture: AFP Nepalese villagers shelter from rain during relief operations following an earthquake at Lapu in Gorkha. Picture: AFP A Nepalese resident injured in the earthquake is carried by a relative towards an Indian Army helicopter. Picture: AFP Damaged houses are seen from an Indian Army helicopter following an earthquake in the Nepalese area of Gorkha . Picture: AFP A Nepalese policeman walks among earthquake debris in the Nepalese capital Kathmandu. Picture: AFP +22 images The uncle of a 12-year-old girl pulled from a collapsed home grieves as he wraps her body in Kathmandu, Nepal. Picture: AP Rescue teams carry a body dug out of the collapsed Sitapyla church in Kathmandu. Picture: AP Nepalese and Indian rescue teams remove a body from the collapsed Sitapyla church in Kathmandu. Picture: AP Volunteers and emergency workers search for bodies buried under the debris of one of the temples at Basantapur Durbar Square n Kathmandu. Picture: Getty Images Rescue personnel observe damaged buildings in Bhaktapur, on the outskirts of Kathmandu. Picture: AFP A woman carries a child next to collapsed houses in Bhaktapur, on the outskirts of Kathmandu. Picture: AFP A Nepalese man consoles his friend during the cremation of his relative killed in the recent earthquake, at the Pashupatinath temple, on the banks of Bagmati river, in Kathmandu. Picture: AP Suresh, 16, right, watches as a priest prepares the funeral pyre for his younger brother Umesh, 13, killed in Saturday’s earthquake. Picture: AP The official death toll soared past 4000, even without a full accounting from vulnerable mountain villages that rescue workers were still struggling to reach two days after the disaster. Picture: AP Israeli women cuddle a newborn baby of a homosexual couple who was born in Nepal to a surrogate mother after they were repatriated to Israel from quake-hit Nepal, at Tel Aviv airport. Picture: AFP A man cries during the funeral of his sister, a victim of Saturday’s earthquake, at the Pashupatinath temple, on the banks of Bagmati river, in Kathmandu, Nepal. Picture: AP Damaged roads are seen after an earthquake on the outskirts of Kathmandu. International aid groups and governments intensified efforts to get rescuers and supplies into earthquake-hit Nepal, but severed communications and landslides in the Himalayan nation posed formidable challenges to the relief effort. Picture: AFP People burn the bodies of earthquake victims at a mass cremation in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP Nepalese residents mourn the death of a relative following an earthquake, at a mass cremation in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP Nepalese rescue personnel rescue a trapped earthquake survivor as his friend lies dead next to him. Picture: AFP A Nepalese resident mourns the death of a relative following an earthquake in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP Nepalese resident Suresh Parihar plays with his 8-month-old daughter Sandhaya as he is treated for injuries sustained in an earthquake at a city hospital in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP An injured person is carried by rescue members to be airlifted by rescue helicopter at Everest Base Camp. Picture: AFP Rescuers carry a sherpa injured by an avalanche that flattened parts of Everest Base Camp. Picture: AFP A cloud of snow and debris triggered by an earthquake flies towards Everest Base Camp, moments ahead of flattening part of the camp in the Himalayas. Picture: AFP People clear rubble in Kathmandu’s Durbar Square, a UNESCO World Heritage Site that was severely damaged by the earthquake. Picture: AFP A Nepalese man and woman hold each other in Kathmandu’s Durbar Square. Picture: AFP Rescuers tend to a sherpa injured by an avalanche that flattened parts of Everest Base Camp. Picture: AFP
4773.txt:Nepalese soldiers load relief goods into an Indian helicopter at the airport in Kathmandu. Sex traffickers are reportedly masquerading as aid workers to infiltrate poor communities and snatch women for brothels
4778.txt:Tons of tents, medicines, and other reliefs materials are stuck in the notoriously slow Nepalese customs buildings near the airport, instead of going straight from the cargo planes into the trucks that could carry them without delay to where they are needed. UN humanitarian chief Valerie Amos clearly said Nepal had a duty to provide faster customs clearance for relief supplies.[2]
4785.txt:Relief material initially piled up at the airport as Nepalese customs officials checked each crate that came in so commercial goods did not slip through. Senior government officials said customs checks were necessary because they did not know what was coming into the country.
4787.txt:Relief material initially piled up at the airport as Nepalese customs officials checked each crate that came in so commercial goods did not slip through.
4787.txt:UN Resident Coordinator Jamie McGoldrick said the situation at the airport had improved, although there had been delays when the aid started to flow in.
4795.txt:RCO Secretary-General, head of Bahrain-Nepal Support Committee Dr. Mustapha Al-Sayyed was at Kathmandu airport as Bahrain cargo plane landed, with the consignment on board. Dr. Al-Sayyed paid tribute to HM King Hamad, extending thanks to His Royal Highness Prime Minister Prince Khalifa bin Salman Al-Khalifa, His Royal Highness Prince Salman bin Hamad Al-Khalifa, Crown Prince, Deputy Supreme Commander and First Deputy Premier and HH Shaikh Nasser bin Hamad Al-Khalifa for their support.
4796.txt:Three days into a crisis, roads and airports are often reopening, and outside responders and journalists are arriving in droves. The decisions made at this time can determine the course of the response. A misstep now can have ramifications lasting years, even decades.
4796.txt:It did, though slowly at first. A trickle of aid convoys arrived overland from the Dominican Republic the next morning. A United States military advance team landed at the damaged airport and took over its operations, setting up an emergency air-traffic-control system.
4805.txt:Auerbach, who traveled to Haiti in the aftermath of the 2010 earthquake, wasn’t able to land in Kathmandu immediately, as the airport’s single runway was crowded with planes shipping supplies to the devastated area.
4815.txt:"Despite the limited capacity of Kathmandu airport, more of the necessary assistance is being delivered," European Commissioner for Humanitarian Aid and Crisis Management Christos Stylianides told Anadolu Agency on Wednesday.
4815.txt:There had been concerns that relief was being delayed at Kathmandu's airport, with some accusing Nepal's government of trying to control the flow of aid through customs.
4815.txt:"That's not true. There are more than 50 countries trying to bring their relief items with flights to Kathmandu. So, you cannot land your flight at the time you wish, you choose; that's not possible because ours is a very small airport," said foreign ministry spokesman Tara Prasad Pokharel, adding that there was only a "short and simple procedure" for incoming flights to follow.
4817.txt:Eleven tons of international aid, including needed medicine, shelter and food, have piled up at the Kathmandu airport and at border crossings from India, but are not being efficiently dispersed. Bureaucracy is to blame, according to Jamie McGoldrick, the United Nations resident coordinator, who was quoted in an interview with The New York Times. "The bottleneck was the fact that the bureaucratic procedures were just so heavy. So many layers of government and so many departments involved, so many different line ministries involved. We don't need goods sitting in Kathmandu warehouses," McGoldrick was reported as saying. "We don't need goods sitting at the airport. We need them up in the affected areas."
481.txt:Nepal’s international airport briefly shut down yesterday when a powerful aftershock hit the capital, Kathmandu, forcing airplanes to turn around mid-flight, officials and reports said.
481.txt:Indian budget airline SpiceJet said it was forced to recall its plane to New Delhi after the air traffic control center at Kathmandu’s airport was evacuated when the magnitude 6.7 aftershock struck.
481.txt:Tribhuvan International Airport general manager Birendra Prasad Shrestha said the runway had reopened after about an hour.
481.txt:“The airport is open and functioning. We had closed the runway for an hour after the quake this afternoon, but we have resumed services,” Shrestha said.
4820.txt:Nepal already had the good position of storage for response to the possible disaster. "The food storage is at the area jointly established by UK Aid and the Nepal government at the premises of Tribhuvan International Airport," he added.
4822.txt:Bandaged: Nepalese soldiers carry an injured man on a stretcher at Kathmandu Airport the day after another massive quake rocked the area
4822.txt:Help: A Nepalese soldier assists an injured person to walk at Kathmandu Airport, a day after another powerful earthquake struck, in Kathmandu, while a helicopter can be seen in the background
4830.txt:Kathmandu (AFP) May 3, 2015 - A 101-year-old man was pulled alive from the rubble of his house in Nepal seven days after it collapsed in a deadly earthquake, police said Sunday. Kathmandu (AFP) May 3, 2015 - A 101-year-old man was pulled alive from the rubble of his house in Nepal seven days after it collapsed in a deadly earthquake, police said Sunday. Funchu Tamang was rescued on Saturday with only minor injuries and airlifted to a district hospital, local police officer Arun Kumar Singh told AFP. "He was brought to the district hospital in a helicopter. His condition is stable," said Singh in Nuwakot district around 80 kilometres (50 miles) northwest of Kathmandu. "He has injuries on his left ankle and hand. His family is with him." Police also rescued three women from under rubble on Sunday in Sindupalchowk, one of the districts worst hit by the quake, although it was not immediately known how long they had been trapped. One had been buried by a landslide while the other two were under the rubble of a collapsed house. "They are being taken to hospital for treatment," said Suraj Khadka, an officer with the Armed Police Force in Kathmandu. Nepal's government had on Saturday ruled out finding more survivors buried in the ruins of Kathmandu. Multiple teams of rescuers from more than 20 countries have been using sniffer dogs and heat-seeking equipment to find survivors in the rubble of the capital. But outside the city search and rescue work has largely been carried out by local police and troops. More than a week after Nepal's devastating earthquake, large swathes of the Himalayan nation have yet to receive any outside help as aid workers battle landslides, avalanches and a helicopter shortage to reach communities in some of the world's remotest terrain. Relief workers say it is now a race against time to get desperately needed shelter, food and clean water to survivors in the far-flung mountain villages flattened by the disaster before the monsoon rains begin in June. But many of the worst-hit communities are tiny villages perched on the side of mountains that are inaccessible by road and where it is difficult or impossible for helicopters to land. The country's poor infrastructure and a weak national government beset by in-fighting among coalition partners have compounded the difficulties of mounting a vast emergency relief operation in the world's highest mountains. "One of the big challenges of working in Nepal, and we knew that this would happen should a major earthquake happen here, is the nature of the terrain," the UN humanitarian chief Valerie Amos told AFP in Kathmandu. "There are a lot of villages which are on the top of hills, they're quite small villages but there are no real roads that go up to those villages, and we know that there are quite a few areas like that because the epicentre is in a mountainous region. "It's not been possible to land even small helicopters (in some places) because there have been landslides." - 'Calamity of enormous proportions' - Indian Air Force pilot Avik Abhijit S Bali described how he had to abandon efforts to rescue survivors from a remote village in Gorkha, one of the worst-hit districts, because he could not land. "We tried for 20 minutes but there was no possibility of landing in a village that was on a slope and covered in debris from collapsed houses," he told AFP. The Nepal government has said it faces a severe shortage of both helicopters and heavy machinery to clear roads blocked by landslides after the 7.8-magnitude quake that hit on April 25, killing more than 7,000 people and flattening entire villages. The army has just seven helicopters of its own and while India has lent the country another six for rescue and relief efforts it desperately needs more help to transport aid materials. "This was a calamity of enormous proportions and the relief operations have been a challenge given the resources we have," said Information Minister Minendra Rijal. "We are putting all our resources into increasing the effectiveness of our relief efforts. We have deployed people to reach every affected district by air, road or even on foot." - 90% of homes destroyed - With authorities saying up to 90 percent of homes in the two worst-affected districts have been destroyed, the United Nations says providing shelter is the priority. It estimates more than eight million survivors are in need of aid, and says it has received reports of desperate survivors clamouring to get onto helicopters evacuating the badly wounded from rural areas and forcing relief trucks off the road. "Remarkably few modern, concrete, buildings have been affected in the capital," said Nepal expert and former UN official John Bevan in a blog post this week. "In the countryside, however, most buildings are old, made of mud or weak bricks and stand on vertiginous slopes. These are the remote hill villages which it would appear have borne the main brunt of the quake." Amos said there had been reports of some areas getting repeated aid deliveries, while others had still received nothing. "What we do know is that there is a lot more need out there than the places we are able to get to," she said. "Our priority now is really to try to reach those people, get immediate assistance to them." The government of landlocked Nepal has also faced criticism for holding up foreign relief deliveries at customs, with reports of aid trucks being turned away at the border with India because they did not have the correct documentation. Kathmandu's tiny international airport has been operating round the clock to allow aid flights to land, but a shortage of parking space has meant some have had to be turned away. On Sunday it said it was imposing a weight restrictions on planes for fear that the only runway may have sustained damage in the quake and the multiple aftershocks that have followed. "This runway is the only lifeline for Kathmandu," said airport manager Birendra Prasad Shrestha. "If it goes, everything goes." Thanks for being here;
4831.txt:Kathmandu (AFP) May 4, 2015 - Mountaineering companies Sunday called off their spring expeditions to Mount Everest, marking the second year with virtually no summits after an quake-triggered avalanche killed 18 on the world's highest peak. Kathmandu (AFP) May 4, 2015 - Mountaineering companies Sunday called off their spring expeditions to Mount Everest, marking the second year with virtually no summits after an quake-triggered avalanche killed 18 on the world's highest peak. The 7.8-magnitude quake left a trail of death and destruction when it erupted around midday on April 25, bringing down buildings in the capital Kathmandu and triggering an avalanche that ripped through Everest base camp. Top climbing firms said they had cancelled their plans even though the avalanche spared their teams, due to fear of aftershocks and destruction of the route to the summit. "With ongoing aftershocks and tremors we can't continue expeditions," two-time Everest summiteer Dawa Steven Sherpa of Kathmandu-based Asian Trekkers told AFP. "And there is nothing in place for climbers anyway...no ropes or ladders.... So there is no point in continuing this season," he added. US-based International Mountain Guides and Nepalese outfit Seven Summits expressed similar concerns, while market leader Himex also cancelled their expedition. "All our members... are climbing down now. No more going up now, not until routes are clear and not until everything is in place for climbers," said Himex's Tamding Sherpa. The decisions come less than a week after the Nepalese tourism department chief advised climbers against abandoning their expeditions, saying repairs were underway while playing down concerns of further quakes and aftershocks. The Sagarmatha Pollution Control Committee, the agency authorised to set the route that climbers take up Mount Everest, has yet to take a decision on whether it will pull the plug on climbing. Some 800 climbers were on the mountain when the avalanche roared through base camp sparked by a massive earthquake that left more than 7,000 people dead. The disaster was the worst to hit Everest and came just one year after another avalanche killed 16 Nepalese guides, sparking an unprecedented shutdown of the 8,848-metre (29,029-foot) high mountain. US transport aircraft were to begin shuttling rescue teams and supplies Monday to remote areas of Nepal that are desperately awaiting aid, nine days after a devastating earthquake that killed more than 7,300 people. The arrival late Sunday in Kathmandu of the United States Air Force C-17 aircraft and four tilt-rotor Ospreys gave another much-needed shot in the arm to the aid effort after a 101-year-old man was pulled alive from his ruined home. An American general said pilots would begin flying sorties out of the capital Kathmandu to remote areas on Monday morning. "They're going to make an immediate difference," US Brigadier General Paul Kennedy told reporters late Sunday. "We've got search and rescue teams waiting to go out to the remote areas, we've got relief supplies, especially shelters. "Most people don't understand that a shelter is the most pressing need, so we're going to take these things out starting tomorrow (Monday) morning," Kennedy added. "The hope is that the sorties start today," an unnamed US embassy official confirmed to AFP on Monday. While the latest official death toll for Nepal stood at 7,250, with some 14,000 injured, authorities warned the final tally would be much higher. More than 100 people were also killed in neighbouring India and China. A Nepalese official said the US aircraft would also airlift victims out of remote areas which experienced some of the worst devastation of the 7.8-magnitude quake on April 25. "They are also assisting any casualties in mostly the eastern side of Nepal... places worst hit like Sindhupalchowk, Gorkha area," Suraya Prasad Silwal, a spokesman for Nepal's home ministry, told AFP. - Death toll warning - Finance Minister Ram Sharan Mahat said the death toll was likely to jump once relief teams reached mountain villages flattened in the worst quake to hit the nation in more than 80 years. "There are still villages where we know that all houses have been destroyed, but have not yet been able to reach," Mahat said. "The aftershocks have not receded and we expect the final casualty numbers to climb much higher," the minister said, as he appealed for hundreds of millions of dollars in foreign donations to help rebuild the country. Around two dozen countries have been helping in the relief effort. And while the international rescue teams have been welcomed by the Nepalese authorities, they have also created a logjam at the country's only international airport on the outskirts of Kathmandu. Authorities said on Sunday that the Tribhuvan International Airport has been closed to heavy planes over concern about the condition of the single runway after the quake and a series of strong aftershocks. But although airport managers issued a notice saying that aircraft with a total weight exceeding 196 tonnes would not be allowed to land, it did not prevent the arrival of the giant US planes. While no survivors have been found alive in the ruins of Kathmandu since Thursday, rescuers did pull a 101-year-old man alive from his ruined home in a rural district on Saturday, a week on from the disaster. Funchu Tamang was rescued with only minor injuries to his ankle and hand in Nuwakot district, some 80 kilometres (50 miles) northwest of Kathmandu. "He was brought to the district hospital in a helicopter. His condition is stable," police officer Arun Kumar Singh told AFP. Police also pulled three women survivors from under rubble on Sunday in Sindhupalchowk, one of the worst-hit districts, although it was not immediately clear how long they had been trapped. Police have found more than 50 bodies, including those of six foreigners, in Nepal's popular Langtang trekking region following last weekend's devastating earthquake, a senior local official said Sunday. Another 100 foreign tourists are still feared to be missing in the Langtang area north of Kathmandu. Climbing firms Sunday called off their Everest spring expeditions, after the quake-triggered avalanche killed 18 on the world's highest peak. "With ongoing aftershocks and tremors we can't continue expeditions," said two-time Everest summiteer Dawa Steven Sherpa of Kathmandu-based Asian Trekkers. Thanks for being here;
4832.txt:Planes loaded with relief supplies from around the world were pouring into landlocked Nepal, but there have been numerous reports of many getting stuck at Kathmandu's small international airport, and customs officials stopping trucks filled with aid from crossing into the country from neighbouring India.
4832.txt:The airport has been closed to heavy planes because of concerns about the condition of the single runway after the quake and a series of strong aftershocks, said Birendra Prasad Shrestha, manager of the Tribhuvan International Airport.
4832.txt:"We have issued a notice saying that aircraft with a total weight exceeding 196 tonnes will not be allowed to land at Kathmandu airport," Shrestha told AFP.
4834.txt:Their arrival comes as Nepal's only international airport has banned larger aircraft carrying aid from landing because of concerns over its runway.
4834.txt:Tribhuvan Airport has been the hub for international
4834.txt:New restrictions on planes landing at Kathmandu airport will not affect aid flights, a Nepali government spokesman said.
4834.txt:Also on Sunday, the United Nations said the problem of customs controls holding up aid deliveries from the airport was "diminishing".
4839.txt:“People are very jittery,” Piercey said, recalling a day when he experienced a small aftershock at the airport. “Everyone froze and looked at the ceiling. People are very frightened.”
4842.txt:International planes loaded with relief supplies were pouring into landlocked Nepal, but there have been numerous reports of many getting stuck at Kathmandu's small airport, and customs officials stopping trucks filled with aid from crossing into the country from neighbouring India.
4842.txt:The airport has been closed to heavy planes due to concern about the condition of the single runway after the quake and a series of strong aftershocks, said Birendra Prasad Shrestha, manager of Tribhuvan International Airport.
4842.txt:"We have issued a notice saying that aircraft with a total weight exceeding 196 tonnes will not be allowed to land at Kathmandu airport," Shrestha told AFP.
4843.txt:The US says that its military aircraft had landed in Nepal and were helping deliver relief supplies and organize logistical support at Kathmandu Airport. US aircraft will also airlift stranded people in hard to reach areas outside the capital.
4845.txt:Consignments of aid are still piling up at Kathmandu airport, waiting to be taken to affected towns and villages. But Home Ministry spokesman Laxmi Prasad Dhakal insisted all goods arriving from abroad still had to be inspected. "This is something we need to do," he said.
4845.txt:In another blow to humanitarian efforts, the country's only international airport has stopped large relief planes from landing because its sole runway is being damaged by the weight of large aircraft. Medium and small jets will still be allowed to land, but the airport has room for just nine on the tarmac at any one time, creating a further bottleneck in supply. (© Independent News Service)
4847.txt:There is a bottleneck of relief materials building up at Tribhuvan International Airport due to a customs backlog. The government has lifted import taxes on tarpaulins and tents since the earthquake, but not on other relief items.
4852.txt:When we arrived in Haiti, we knew that food and fresh water would be an issue. Prior to departure, our team received advice that we should pack several days of supplies for ourselves. We did – and those supplies were either mishandled at the airport and given away to other volunteers, or given away to survivors who were begging for help.
4853.txt:In this April 26 file photo, a German national girl and a man wait in a queue to go inside the Kathmandu international airport, in Kathmandu, Nepal. In mere seconds a powerful earthquake flattened a swath of Nepal. The tourism industry, a pillar of the economy, has been shattered and it's unclear when the travelers will return. (Bernat Armangue / AP)
4860.txt:Kathmandu has one small airport which can only receive a limited number of planes so most aid is coming in by road from India, said Roy.
4877.txt:“It’s a landlocked country. There’s a single point of entry through the international airport,” Kennedy said. “Makes it tough.”
487.txt:A group of U.S. climbers was caught climbing Mt. Everest when the earthquake and avalanche hit, and today found themselves with no way down.Garrett Madison of Madison Mountaineering said the group managed to make it to Camp 2 after the avalanche, but they learned that their base camp had been devastated and one of their members, "our beloved doctor Eve Girawong" had died.The group managed to get to Camp 2, but then found that the rest of the route down the mountain was impassable."We have been up here at Camp 2 hanging tough but we are running low on food and fuel and we have to get down," Madison said. "There's no path or route through the Khumbu icefall at this point in time. The teams that have tried to make their way through the icefall today were unsuccessful and it will not be attempting again in the future. So at this point our only option to get down is by helicopter evacuation."He said they hoped to be able to make it to the lower Camp 1, where it would be possible for them to be evacuated by heicopter.Madison's story was one of several coming off the world's highest peak after the 7.8-magnitude earthquake Saturday unleashed an avalanche that caught climbers just as the climbing season was nearing an end.Ashleigh Stumler had just left a Nepali village near Mt. Everest when she said the ground started shaking so violently she thought she was having a dizzy spell and grabbed onto a tree, and then she heard the thunderous sound of a landslide.Stumler, from Charlotte, North Carolina, said she and a woman from Washington, who were on a planned two-week trek, were not far from the village of Pheriche -- a lodge for climbers on their way to Mt. Everest Base Camp -- when the shaking started."At first I was confused on what was happening but holding onto a tree while the earth around us was violently shaking," Stumler told ABC News via email. "We heard a nearby landslide and started worrying about friends that we had met along the way."The magnitude-7.8 quake toppled temples and triggered an avalanche on Mt. Everest. A magnitude-6.6 aftershock hit about an hour after the initial earthquake and smaller aftershocks followed in the region for hours.Stumler was not injured and said she hopes to get to Kathmandu, Nepal 's capital, to help provide support."The situation is feeling increasingly more serious than the moment I was clinging to a tree yesterday," she wrote. "Today's tremor seemed to put my body into some kind of survival mode while desperately trying to reach Lukla [a town with an airport less than 20 miles from Everest] in hopes of getting out."Another survivor, Bhim Bahadur Khatri, told the Associated Press he was in a tent at Mt. Everest when the quake struck."We all rushed out to the open and the next moment a huge wall of snow just piled on me," he said. "I managed to dig out of what could easily have been my grave. I wiggled and used my hands as claws to dig as much as I could. I was suffocating, I could not breathe. But I knew I had to survive."He was flown to Kathmandu and taken to a hospital, the AP reported.The quake hit about 50 miles northwest of Kathmandu just before noon local time Saturday, according to the U.S. Geological Survey.At least 2,100 people have been killed in Nepal, the country's Interior Ministry told ABC News on Sunday.More than 1,000 others were injured, said the country's finance minister, Ram Sharan Mahat.At least 51 were also killed in India , 17 in Tibet , two in Bangladesh and two Chinese citizens died at the Nepal-China border.
488.txt:Kathamandu airport has re-opened and aid flights have started delivering desperately needed supplies.
4897.txt:A tiny airport is serving as the main distribution hub for relief supplies coming in to Nepal. The supplies are then moved out to the remote regions where there's a greater need. The U.S. military is bringing in some of the heavy equipment to help make that transfer happen.
4909.txt:This morning, after mapping a 750-meter-long lateral slump fissure [example] east of the airport, I found myself at the center of tent fabrication from 100-meter-long rolls of plastic tablecloth now being sewn into 4-meter-by-10-meter panels. Each tent can house five people and consists of a rectangle of canvas placed over an A-shaped frame of bamboo poles which the villagers must provide. The monsoon is expected in about three days. My host is a businessman with contacts in the government who, quite unlike the government officials, has sprung into action. During writing this note the number of sewing machines has doubled. An entire Toyota dealership is now assembling tents — one every minute. The estimated need is for 500,000 tents by the end of the week. The government thinks that with current supplies they can obtain 300,000 rectangles of canvas, and are uncertain where the rest will come from. The Toyota repair garage owner with whom I am working is turning out one per minute using six sewing machines and 50 workers to cut and fold the canvas. The canvas is estimated to have a life of about one to six months in the monsoon and will then need to be disposed of or replaced with more canvas. There is no immediate solution for permanent structures that will be needed for the coming winter.*
4911.txt:While strict vigil is being kept at all the border posts, security personnel at the Indira Gandhi International Airport are also on their toes. The immigration department and the Airport Police are both on a state of high alert at the IGI Airport.
4911.txt:The inflow of people from Nepal is on, and the CISF intelligence is also aware that there are many taking connecting flights as well. There are additional checks in place for passengers catching another aircraft. Vigil is also being kept on domestic air trips. The Airport Police has placed a tight security web outside the terminal.
4911.txt:An Airport police official said: “We have done a lot of homework. There are some preliminary measures that we have taken. Generally, it is the road route which is under scanner but we are on alert here as well.”
4922.txt:To compound the problem, CNN reports Nepal has been forced to close its only international airport to big airplanes flying in relief supplies and aid workers because its only runway is degrading fast under the weight of large aircraft.
4936.txt:ONE AMONGST MANY: The China International Rescue Team recovers a local survivor from a collapsed building in Kathmandu on April 26 (BAI YANG) An 8.1-magnitude earthquake devastated Nepal on April 25. The earthquake was so powerful that it shifted the ground beneath Kathmandu, Nepal's capital, by as much as three meters to the south, according to the Nepalese authorities. The world has now turned its eyes to the earthquake's aftermath, as images broadcast from Nepal shook the international community. The death toll in Nepal has surpassed 5,000 and is still climbing as authorities and law enforcement rush to confirm local people's whereabouts. Nepal's Prime Minister Sushil Koirala projected that the death toll may well reach over 10,000. The earthquake, which also affected neighboring areas of southwest China's Tibet Autonomous Region, may not even be over, as survivors await possible strong aftershocks that often follow the initial quake. STILL STANDING: Nepalese rescue members gather at the collapsed Darahara Tower in Kathmandu on April 25 (XINHUA/AFP) Fearing for our own Famous for its scenery at the Himalayas and its rich cultural heritage, Nepal attracts over half a million tourists all over the world every year. Tourists enjoy hiking and mountain climbing. Chinese and Indian citizens together account for 36 percent of foreign tourists in Nepal, according to the country's tourism authorities. Thanks to more air routes, increasing numbers of Chinese tourists have chosen Nepal as a tourist destination in recent years. Of those Chinese tourists, 6,000 were in Nepal when the earthquake took place. Li Qiong, a 25-year-old tour guide, was in a town near Kathmandu. She immediately assembled all 21 of her group members, and fortunately, no one was injured. The group had traveled from north China's Shanxi Province to Nepal for a 10-day trip. Over the past five years, Li had often accompanied Chinese tourists to Nepal, but the sudden earthquake turned the relatively familiar terrain into a nightmare for her. "Many old buildings that we had just visited and taken photos of in the morning collapsed within three minutes as earthquake shook in the afternoon," Li recalled. The nightmare continued throughout the 30 minutes following the earthquake, during which aftershocks hit repeatedly. "A local tour guide took us to the open ground of Durbar Square to avoid the dangers of the aftershocks," Li said. SOLIDARITY AMONG CHAOS: People clear rubble in Kathmandu's Durbar Square, a UNESCO World Heritage Site that was severely damaged by the earthquake on April 25 (XINHUA/AFP) However, for Li, the reality of the earthquake's destruction didn't begin to hit her until she processed the damage with her own eyes. "I just couldn't believe that we were survivors of a devastating earthquake until we walked through the ruins of buildings," Li said. The next day, Li's travel agency helped these tourists board an airliner which took them back to Lhasa in China. On the way to the airport of Kathmandu, Li and her group members made donations to their local Nepalese tour guide and driver. "We are grateful for everything they've risked," Li said. "They were with us the whole time after the quake. They did not go home for their families until their job was finished." Li and her tour group's homecoming was emotional, to say the least. "We all burst into tears when we arrived at Lhasa airport and saw the electric board which said 'welcome home.' We were moved because so many people cared about us, and our country did the best to bring us home," Li said. SAFE AND SOUND: A total of 100 Chinese and 15 foreign travelers on board a China Southern Airlines plane land in Guangzhou Baiyun airport on April 26 (HUANG GUOBAO) Foreign travelers flocked to Kathmandu's airport after the earthquake, and the airport struggled to accommodate its passengers in the wake of the damage. Many countries have performed similar efforts to evacuate their citizens. Chinese embassy diplomats in Nepal got in touch with every Chinese citizen known to be in the quake-stricken region as soon as possible. Major Chinese airlines added planes to Kathmandu to evacuate Chinese citizens. As of April 27, Chinese airlines have taken 1,809 passengers back home, according to Guangzhou-based Southern Metropolis Daily in south China's Guangdong Province. In addition to the devastation that swept Nepal, the quake also triggered deadly avalanches on Mount Qomolangma, known as Mount Everest in the West, swallowing nearly 20 foreign mountaineers including Daniel Fredinburg, a 33-year-old Google executive. Hundreds of people were trapped in the base camp on the mountainside. Mount Qomolangma's climate is already harsh, a situation only made worse by the earthquake. Around 40 Chinese mountaineers making up four teams were on the south slope of Mount Qomolangma when the quake came. Mountaineering organizations have commissioned helicopters to rescue survivors stranded on Mount Qomolangma. Li Zhixin, President of the Chinese Mountaineering Association (CMA), told Beijing-based Global Times that most mountaineers chose to climb the mountain in April and May because of the agreeable weather. SEEKING HAVEN: Survivors gather at a square in Kathmandu and try to escape from aftershocks on April 26 (XINHUA) The CMA had warned that, if a natural disaster were to occur, the chances for survival for the large number of mountaineers camping on route to Mount Qomolangma would be slim, Li said. There is little possibility for surviving an avalanche. In the face of nature, humans are simply too small, Li said. International aid While foreign citizens were evacuated, international rescuers and aid have been arriving in the country to help cope with the damage dealt by the worst earthquake to hit Nepal in over 80 years. The international community has joined with Nepalese forces to search for survivors under the rubble of collapsed buildings in quake-hit areas. On April 26, the Chinese Government announced it would offer 20 million yuan ($3.22 million) in aid to Nepal. The Red Cross Society of China delivered the first 186 tons of emergency supplies to the earthquake-stricken country from Beijing on April 27. In addition to supplies, China took quick action to send disaster relief forces to Nepal as well as disaster areas in China's Tibet, in the hope of saving as many as possible in the "golden 72 hours," after which the chance of finding earthquake survivors diminishes immensely. China has been improving its disaster relief capacity and resources since a devastating earthquake, which took the lives of nearly 70,000, struck southwest China's Sichuan Province in 2008. China International Rescue Team, consisting of 62 members and six trained hounds, arrived in Kathmandu on the morning of April 26. Taking advantage of their proximity to Nepal, they were the first international team in the country and immediately set to work upon their arrival. That afternoon, they successfully recovered a survivor. SIGHT OF HOPE: A rescue helicopter prepares to land and airlift the injured from Mount Qomolangma South Base Camp in Nepal on April 26, a day after an avalanche triggered by the 8.1-magnitude earthquake devastated the camp (XINHUA/AFP) Meanwhile, four IL-76 aircraft of Chinese Air Force were sent to carry humanitarian aid and a 58-person medical team to Nepal, announced Shen Jinke, spokesman for the Chinese Air Force in Beijing. Zhou Shengping, Xinhua News Agency's correspondent in Kathmandu, said that Nepal's rescue mission faced many difficulties. Nepal's rescue forces were overworked in the days following the quake. Tired and struggling to find effective tools, they continued to search, as the country's need was too great for them to rest. The lack of aircraft slows down rescue missions in Nepal, because many roads leading to disaster-hit mountainous areas were destroyed by the quake and subsequent landslide. The Chinese Academy of Sciences has opened its high-resolution satellite graphics of Nepal's quake-hit areas in a bid to streamline rescue work and avoid casualties from possible future disasters, including landslides and glacier collapses. In the meantime, the international community has also extended a hand to Nepal. India, another neighboring country of Nepal, offered several aircraft carrying medical supplies and a mobile hospital, as well as a disaster response team. The United States delivered a disaster response team and an initial $1 million in aid. Pakistan sent four C-130 aircraft carrying a rescue team and medical doctors as well as disaster relief supplies to Nepal. Despite the timely aid from other countries and rescue efforts, one thing is clear: Aid for the broken hearts of Nepal can't come fast enough, and it will take a long time to even begin to recover from the devastation that has rocked the country. Copyedited by Kylee McIntyre Comments to baishi@bjreview.com
4937.txt:“It was terrifying,” he told the Tribune early Friday in a telephone interview from the airport in Nepal as he waited to fly out and eventually return to his Atlanta home.
4945.txt:media_camera Relief ... US soldiers unload Huey Helicopters from a US Air Force Boeing C-17 Globemaster III after landing at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal. Picture: AP Photo/Niranjan Shrestha
4945.txt:media_camera Foreign aid ... relief material brought in from China lie at the Tribhuvan International airport in Kathmandu, Nepal. Picture: AP Photo/Niranjan Shrestha
4945.txt:International planes loaded with relief supplies have poured into landlocked Nepal, but there have been numerous reports of many getting stuck at Kathmandu’s small airport, and customs officials stopping trucks filled with aid from neighbouring India.
4945.txt:Tribhuvan International Airport has also been closed to heavy planes over concern about the condition of the single runway after the quake and a series of strong aftershocks, said Birendra Prasad Shrestha, the airport’s manager.
4945.txt:“We have issued a notice saying that aircraft with a total weight exceeding 196 tonnes will not be allowed to land at Kathmandu airport,” Shrestha said.
4946.txt:International planes loaded with relief supplies have poured into landlocked Nepal, but there have been numerous reports of many getting stuck at Kathmandu’s small airport, and customs officials stopping trucks filled with aid from crossing into the country from neighbouring India.
4946.txt:Tribhuvan International Airport has been closed to heavy planes over concern about the condition of the single runway after the quake and a series of strong aftershocks, said Birendra Prasad Shrestha, the airport’s manager.
4946.txt:“We have issued a notice saying that aircraft with a total weight exceeding 196 tonnes will not be allowed to land at Kathmandu airport,” Shrestha told AFP.
4949.txt:Relieved ... Australian evacuees wait to be transferred to RAAF transport planes at a terminal in Kathmandu International Airport. Photo: Matt Wade
4949.txt:The relief was palpable as the group gathered at Kathmandu International Airport on Thursday evening to take the flights arranged by the Australian government. The aircraft unloaded emergency relief supplies to be distributed in Nepal before the 106 evacuees boarded.
494.txt:They know they need to hurry. Kathmandu's airport reopened, a key development.
4952.txt:“It’s great to donate money to all these causes, but the main issue is that aid is having troubles getting in, because they only have that one airport,” she said.
4957.txt:A: The leadership of the Party Central Committee and the State Council gives top priority to the security of Chinese citizens in disaster-hit Nepal, calling for all-out efforts in rescuing, treating and taking back Chinese citizens. Under the coordination of the Foreign Ministry, the Civil Aviation Administration of China, the Chinese Embassy in Nepal and other departments concerned, efforts have been made by Air China, China Eastern Airlines, China Southern Airlines and Sichuan Airlines to keep up with transportation needs despite all the difficulties. 5,685 Chinese citizens have come back home safe and sound. Operation at the Kathmandu airport has returned to normal, fully capable of handling the landing and departure of all the flights. Empty seats are seen on some of the China-bound flights. More passenger planes will be sent to Nepal to pick up Chinese citizens in the light of the actual needs.
4958.txt:US soldiers unload Huey helicopters from a US Air Force Boeing C-17 Globemaster III after the same landed at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal. Picture; Niranjan Shrestha
4958.txt:Around two dozen countries have been helping in the relief effort. And while the international teams have been welcomed by the Nepalese authorities, they have also created a logjam at the only international airport on the outskirts of Kathmandu.
4958.txt:Authorities said on Sunday that the Tribhuvan International Airport has been closed to heavy planes over concern about the condition of the single runway after the quake and a series of strong aftershocks.
4958.txt:But although airport managers issued a notice saying aircraft with a total weight exceeding 196 tons would not be allowed to land, it did not prevent the arrival of the giant US planes.
4961.txt:READ MORE: Hyderabad Airport Receives Award
4967.txt:There were allegations that the air force planes had virtually taken control of the airport, thus slowing down other international aid efforts. Also many in Nepal feel that the "outsized" coverage of the Indian effort had put to shade heroic efforts made by the Nepalese army, its armed police and the beleaguered local officials who have tried their best to work in very difficult circumstances. "India, anyway, is often criticised in Nepal for the involvement of its government in Nepal's internal politics," says Kathmandu-based senior editor Yubaraj Ghimire. The growing backlash against the India media has added fuel to the ire.
496.txt:She said her son also told her the situation at the Kathmandu airport was mayhem with people struggling to get on departing flights.
497.txt:“We all rushed out to the open and the next moment a huge wall of snow just piled on me,” he said in a brief airport interview before being driven to a hospital. “I managed to dig out of what could easily have been my grave. I wiggled and used my hands as claws to dig as much as I could. I was suffocating, I could not breathe. But I knew I had to survive.”
4980.txt:Almost five hours later, a massive earthquake struck Nepal, setting off an avalanche that swept Asraf, 22, off his path and to his death.The two young men from nearby communities in the Negev had just met the day before at a guest house in the Langtang area of the Himalayan state.Kadoch, 23, was six months into his post-army trip and was traveling with five friends.“Or was an amazing person, really,” Kadoch said on Monday, as he recalled that meeting for The Jerusalem Post.He had landed at Ben-Gurion Airport the day before to the relief of his mother, Levana, and sister, Einav, but to the news that rescue workers had just found Asraf’s body.“We told [Asraf] he could join us,” Kadoch said. “But he said he was going ahead alone. He started the trek half-an-hour before we did. He was in good shape, he was running fast and we were a little bit lazy.”Kadoch said that at 12:15 p.m., some four hours after they started hiking, the quake struck as they walked through a valley.Suddenly rocks fell near them from the mountains.“At first we thought it was a landslide, but then the earth moved and we knew it was an earthquake,” Kadoch recalled.Some of the scariest moments were in those initial moments. “I took the camera and started filming. I thought, ‘if I am going to die, at least my mother should know what happened to me,’” he said. “It was bad.”He stopped filming and started running as more rocks fell. His friends ran with him, seeking shelter, but only half of them found a safe spot.Kadoch said that he and two other friends had to climb a small distance up the mountain until they found a small cave.The trio stayed there for four hours as aftershocks rocked the mountain. He said that once it seemed quieter they hiked back to the valley to find the bags they had dropped.The other half of his group was nowhere to be seen and someone had rummaged through his bag and removed all the warm clothing.Unsure what happened to them, he and his two remaining friends decided that the valley was dangerous, and that they would be safer on higher ground.They didn’t understand the extent of the disaster.“We thought we were at the epicenter of the quake,” Kadoch said.Throughout their journey to safety, he said, they were helped by local Nepalese people.“We started climbing the mountain with a local family, who really helped us. We did not have any water or food. While we were climbing there were still landslides near us,” he said.That night, they found a safe place to sleep in a forest higher up on the mountain. At times they could still feel the ground moving underneath them.They woke at dawn and continued hiking upward in the direction of a village. The owner of a dairy farm gave them refuge. In turn, they created a clearing where they wrote out the letters “SOS,” in hopes that a helicopter could see it from the sky.“It didn’t work,” Kadoch said.For the three days that they walked, there was no cellular reception and they were cut off from the rest of the world. But they began to hear bits and pieces of the extent of the disaster.Only on Tuesday did they meet four Israelis with a satellite phone who were waiting to be rescued by helicopter. Through those Israelis they found that the lost members of their group were safe.As they waited for rescue, they were adopted by a Nepalese local.“He took us under his wing, brought us mattresses and blankets as we waited,” said Kadoch.In Israel, his mother and sister were beside themselves with worry.The sister posted Kadoch’s photo onto a Facebook page. Then on Tuesday, the father of the Israeli trekker with the satellite phone contacted her to assure her that he was safe.“I cried,” said Kadoch’s mother on Sunday as she looked at her son as he stood in Ben-Gurion Airport wearing a large backpack. “I’m still crying.”Kadoch said that he and his friends were rescued by helicopter on Thursday and flown to a village with an army base. They were able to use a satellite phone there to call their families.They then walked for six hours until they could catch a bus to Kathmandu.Once in the city, they spoke to a rescue team in the Israeli field hospital to help provide coordinates of Asraf’s whereabouts. Israeli rescuers found Asraf’s body on Sunday afternoon, and his body is expected to be flown out of Kathmandu to Israel on Tuesday.On Saturday, Kadoch flew out of Kathmandu on an Israeli Air Force plane along with several dozen trekkers who had been similarly stranded.Now that he has returned to Israel, Kadoch said, “first I am going to eat good food.”His homecoming, however, was bittersweet.“I am happy to be home, but I am sad for Or.”
4982.txt:Or’s mother, Orit, waited for the rescued Israelis at the airport with a sign inquiring if any of them had seen her son. When this attempt failed, Or’s father, Patrick, set out on a mission to find his son. The family opened a situation room and recruited many volunteers from the IDF, ZAKA, the Isralife Foundation and other organizations. The volunteers joined Patrick and travelled with him to Nepal to continue searching for Or. Soon after, Or’s squad commander and his fellow soldiers joined the other volunteers. Or’s sister, Ella, who was awaiting her father’s return and praying that her brother would come back with him, said in recent days: ”I think about Or, about how strong he is and about the challenges he has faced in his life. The support of the people of Israel helps me through this hard time.”
4983.txt:Nepal aftermath — Relief supplies for earthquake victims have been piling up at the airport and in warehouses in Kathmandu, Nepal, because of bureaucratic interference by Nepalese authorities who insist that standard customs inspections and other procedures be followed, even in an emergency, Western government and aid organization officials said Sunday. The U.S. ambassador to Nepal, Peter Bodde, said he had spoken to Nepal’s prime minister, Sushil Koirala, about the issue and “he assured me that all the red tape will be stopped.” Also Sunday, three survivors were pulled from rubble in the Sindhupalchok district, an especially hard-hit and largely rural area.
4989.txt:DALLAS/FORT WORTH AIRPORT – Waiting is never easy. Sharon Banks will tell you that.
4989.txt:"Everybody is coming out but her," she said while nervously shifting in her sandals at the Dallas/Forth Worth International Airport Saturday evening.
498.txt:The Kathmandu airport, which was shut down for hours following Saturday's devastating tremor, has reopened for the arrival of foreign aids.
4990.txt:Photo By Sgt. Mandaline Hatch | U.S. Marine MV-22B Ospreys arrive at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu,...... read more read more Photo By Sgt. Mandaline Hatch | U.S. Marine MV-22B Ospreys arrive at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, May 3. U.S. Marines also brought an UH-1Y Huey, tools and equipment to support the government of Nepal. The Nepalese Government requested the U.S. Government's help after a 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck their country, April 25. The aircraft are with Marine Medium Tiltrotor Squadron 262, Marine Aircraft Group 36, 1st Marine Aircraft Wing, III Marine Expeditionary Force. (U.S. Marine Corps photo by Lance Cpl. Mandaline Hatch/Released) see less | View Image Page
4990.txt:KATHMANDU, Nepal - Four MV-22B Ospreys arrived at Tribhuvan International Airport May 3 to support relief efforts in central Nepal after a magnitude 7.8 earthquake struck the country on April 25.
4995.txt:The announcement came as the Himalayan country was forced to close its only international airport to large jets because they are causing damage to its runway as they bring in aid, following last Saturday's 7.8 magnitude quake.
5000.txt:Family and friends anxiously waited for Colton Stiffler at the Bozeman airport Saturday, seeing him for the first time since his trip to Nepal.
5001.txt:The deployment is expected to ease the piling up of relief material at Katmandu airport, Nepal’s only major airport.
5001.txt:On Sunday, the government restricted the landing of large cargo aircraft at the airport to limit damage to the stressed runway, said a UN official who declined to be named.
5001.txt:The deployment is expected to ease the piling up of relief material at Katmandu airport, Nepal’s only major airport.
5001.txt:On Sunday, the government restricted the landing of large cargo aircraft at the airport to limit damage to the stressed runway, said a UN official who declined to be named.
5011.txt:Image caption Amy Webster was reunited with her parents at the airport
5024.txt:KATHMANDU, Nepal — Relief supplies for earthquake victims have been piling up at the airport and in warehouses here because of bureaucratic interference by Nepalese authorities who insist that standard customs inspections and other procedures be followed, even in an emergency, Western government and aid organization officials said Sunday.
5024.txt:“The bottleneck was the fact that the bureaucratic procedures were just so heavy,” Jamie McGoldrick, the U.N. resident coordinator, said in an interview. “So many layers of government and so many departments involved, so many different line ministries involved. We don’t need goods sitting in Kathmandu warehouses. We don’t need goods sitting at the airport. We need them up in the affected areas.”
5024.txt:“We’ve been sitting on a ramp in Okinawa for the last 72 hours” waiting for permission to land at Kathmandu, Powers said at the airport.
5024.txt:Yet McGoldrick said that delays were occurring not only at the Kathmandu airport but at border crossings with India and even at district headquarters across the country, and Nepalese journalists have quoted customs officials at the Indian border crossings as affirming that relief supplies needed to “go through strict inspections.”
5024.txt:Also Sunday, civil aviation authorities announced that they had closed the Kathmandu airport to the largest jets, or those weighing more than 196 metric tons, for fear they could damage the runways.
5024.txt:“We feared that the possible damage of our only international airport would invite further problems in the post-quake scenario, so the landing of heavy planes has now been restricted,” said Birendra Prasad Shrestha, the airport’s acting general manager.
5025.txt:At the moment, Malteser International is supporting the medical facilities at the University Hospital in Kathmandu. “In addition, our doctors will be providing medical assistance in the district of Sindhupalchok, north of the capital. The WHO has reported a particularly high number of people in need of help in this region,” Marx reports. Two doctors and a paramedic from Malteser International are cooperating with personnel from Thailand, but “further medical assistance is greatly needed in the rural areas,” he says. In addition to dealing with physical injuries, Malteser International has been active at the airport and from the premises of the German Embassy in recent days to provide psychological support for traumatised survivors.
5026.txt:The U.S. Air Force ferried the shorter range UH-1s to Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport. The flying branch’s cargo planes had already delivered tons of humanitarian aid and ferried in civilian first-responders.
5035.txt:The deployment of U.S. military aircraft and personnel since Sunday is expected to ease the piling up of relief material at Kathmandu airport, Nepal's only major airport.
5036.txt:The deployment is expected to ease the piling up of relief material at Kathmandu airport, Nepal’s only major airport.
5036.txt:On Sunday, the government restricted the landing of large cargo aircraft at the airport to limit damage to the stressed runway, said a U.N. official who declined to be named.
5037.txt:Meanwhile, United Nations Resident Representative Jamie McGoldrick said the government needed to loosen its normal customs restrictions, as criticism mounted over a pile-up of aid at Kathmandu airport, Nepal's only international gateway.
5038.txt:The government has however put a ban on any larger incoming aircraft from landing at the country’s only international airport, due to concerns over potholes and damage to the runway.
5039.txt:The deployment is expected to ease the piling up of relief material at Katmandu airport, Nepal’s only major airport.
5039.txt:On Sunday, the government restricted the landing of large cargo aircraft at the airport to limit damage to the stressed runway, said a UN official who declined to be named.
5039.txt:The deployment is expected to ease the piling up of relief material at Katmandu airport, Nepal’s only major airport.
5039.txt:On Sunday, the government restricted the landing of large cargo aircraft at the airport to limit damage to the stressed runway, said a UN official who declined to be named.
5040.txt:The country’s only main airport the Tribhuvan International Airport has been closed for large aircraft due to runway damage that forced authorities to take such a step in the middle of the calamity.
5040.txt:The runway was built to handle only medium-size jetliners, not the large military and cargo planes that have been flying emergency supplies to Nepal, said manager of the airport Birendra Shrestha.
5041.txt:Our team was stuck in Nepal. Now, we have received news that they are safe, at Kathmandu Airport. Graciously thank @AnupamkPandey @MEAIndia — travelxpHD (@travelxp) April 26, 2015
5043.txt:On Sunday, the government restricted the landing of large cargo aircraft at the airport to limit damage to the stressed runway, said a U.N. official who declined to be named.
5044.txt:The group arrived at the Thibhuvan International Airport here late on Friday from Lukla in a specially chartered helicopter after being advised by UTM vice-chancellor Prof Datuk Dr Wahid Omar.
5048.txt:Aid packages for Nepal loaded at Warsaw's Chopin Airport. Flights carrying material for quake-stricken Nepalis also left from Krakow. Photo: PAP/Jakub Kamiński. Photo: PAP/Jakub Kamiński
5049.txt:A 101-year-old man has been pulled alive from the rubble of his house in Nepal seven days after it collapsed in the earthquake that has killed thousands.Funchu Tamang was rescued on Saturday suffering only minor injuries, and was airlifted to hospital.According to the Daily Telegraph , Arun Kumar Singh, a local police officer, told AFP: "He was brought to the district hospital in a helicopter. His condition is stable."He has injuries on his left ankle and hand. His family is with him."He is being treated at a hospital in Nuwakot district, around 80 kilometres (50 miles) northwest of Kathmandu.Nepal's earthquake has claimed at least 7,200 lives, and the government warned on 3 May that the death toll will climb 'much higher'.The UK Government's humanitarian response package for the Nepal earthquake now stands at £22.8 million, following a £5.3 million contribution to the United Nations' emergency appeal, reports the Press Association.The new money will be split between agencies helping supply food, clean water and shelter to the millions of people affected by Nepal's worst earthquake in 80 years - the World Food Programme, Unicef, the Office for the Co-ordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), the International Organisation for Migration (IOM) and the International Federation of the Red Cross (IFRC).The announcement came as the Himalayan country was forced to close its only international airport to large jets because they are causing damage to its runway as they bring in aid, following last Saturday's 7.8 magnitude quake.The UN has appealed for £274 million for its "flash appeal" to help those affected by the quake, which killed more than 7,000 people and injured thousands more.It was revealed on Saturday that eight Britons stranded in a monastery had been rescued, a week after the devastating earthquake struck.A team of humanitarian experts chartered a helicopter to get to the group, who were marooned at a remote mountainside religious retreat in Bihi, near Lho.The team of emergency staff from the Department for International Development (Dfid) flew the group to Kathmandu where on Friday they boarded planes to start their journey back to the UK.It came as an RAF C-17 which had taken aid to Nepal rescued another seven Britons from the country - bringing the number of people from the UK who were safely evacuated yesterday to 15.A former Gurkha yesterday told the BBC that four people from the UK's Nepali community were killed in the disaster.Kashi Rai from Swindon in Wiltshire said at least three of the four victims were Nepali citizens from the town who had indefinite leave to live in the UK.His brother and his sister-in-law were among those who had died, he said.Reports of another British victim killed at Mount Everest base camp are still being investigated.
5054.txt:"I've got to go back. I felt like the biggest evil in the world, in the airport, going home and leaving my friends behind. I felt so bad leaving."
5055.txt:Authorities said on Sunday that the Tribhuvan International Airport has been closed to heavy planes over concern about the condition of the single runway after the quake and a series of strong aftershocks. But although airport managers issued a
5055.txt:"The aftershocks have not receded and we expect the final casualty numbers to climb much higher," the minister said, as he appealed for hundreds of millions of dollars in foreign donations to help rebuild the country. Around two dozen countries have been helping in the relief effort. And while the international teams have been welcomed by the Nepalese authorities, they have also created a logjam at the only international airport on the outskirts of Kathmandu.
5055.txt:Authorities said on Sunday that the Tribhuvan International Airport has been closed to heavy planes over concern about the condition of the single runway after the quake and a series of strong aftershocks. But although airport managers issued a notice saying aircraft with a total weight exceeding 196 tonnes would not be allowed to land, it did not prevent the arrival of the giant US planes.
5056.txt:International planes loaded with relief supplies have poured into landlocked Nepal, but there have been numerous reports of many getting stuck at Kathmandu's small airport, and customs officials stopping trucks filled with aid from crossing into the country from neighbouring India.
5056.txt:Tribhuvan International Airport has been closed to heavy planes over concern about the condition of the single runway after the quake and a series of strong aftershocks, said Birendra Prasad Shrestha, the airport's manager.
5056.txt:"We have issued a notice saying that aircraft with a total weight exceeding 196 tonnes will not be allowed to land at Kathmandu airport," Shrestha told AFP.
5061.txt:Banerjee told newsmen at Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport that she was carrying with her certain things that the Nepal government had sought.
5061.txt:"There is scarcity of some things in Nepal which its government has sought from us. I am carrying those things," she said.Banerjee, however, did not give any details on it.The chief minister who visited north Bengal a day after the quake on Arpil 25, said she would proceed to the border directly after reaching Bagdogra airport.North Bengal reported three deaths - one each in Jalpaiguri, Naxalbari and Siligurim due to the quake. Several injured have been admitted to the government hospital in Siliguri.
5069.txt:The prime minister was briefed about the relief distribution by Nepal Army officials including Nepal Army Chief Gen Gaurav SJB Rana. The NA officials told the PM that relief materials received by Nepal was below than the expectation and very few relief materials have stocked in airport premises.
5069.txt:Some planes came with little relief materials but busy on evacuating their nationals made the narrow airport busy so that planes bringing relief materials could not land on time.
506.txt:A group of U.S. climbers was caught climbing Mt. Everest when the earthquake and avalanche hit, and today found themselves with no way down.Garrett Madison of Madison Mountaineering said the group managed to make it to Camp 2 after the avalanche, but they learned that their base camp had been devastated and one of their members, "our beloved doctor Eve Girawong" had died.The group managed to get to Camp 2, but then found that the rest of the route down the mountain was impassable."We have been up here at Camp 2 hanging tough but we are running low on food and fuel and we have to get down," Madison said. "There's no path or route through the Khumbu icefall at this point in time. The teams that have tried to make their way through the icefall today were unsuccessful and it will not be attempting again in the future. So at this point our only option to get down is by helicopter evacuation."He said they hoped to be able to make it to the lower Camp 1, where it would be possible for them to be evacuated by heicopter.Madison's story was one of several coming off the world's highest peak after the 7.8-magnitude earthquake Saturday unleashed an avalanche that caught climbers just as the climbing season was nearing an end.Ashleigh Stumler had just left a Nepali village near Mt. Everest when she said the ground started shaking so violently she thought she was having a dizzy spell and grabbed onto a tree, and then she heard the thunderous sound of a landslide.Stumler, from Charlotte, North Carolina, said she and a woman from Washington, who were on a planned two-week trek, were not far from the village of Pheriche -- a lodge for climbers on their way to Mt. Everest Base Camp -- when the shaking started."At first I was confused on what was happening but holding onto a tree while the earth around us was violently shaking," Stumler told ABC News via email. "We heard a nearby landslide and started worrying about friends that we had met along the way."The magnitude-7.8 quake toppled temples and triggered an avalanche on Mt. Everest. A magnitude-6.6 aftershock hit about an hour after the initial earthquake and smaller aftershocks followed in the region for hours.Stumler was not injured and said she hopes to get to Kathmandu, Nepal 's capital, to help provide support."The situation is feeling increasingly more serious than the moment I was clinging to a tree yesterday," she wrote. "Today's tremor seemed to put my body into some kind of survival mode while desperately trying to reach Lukla [a town with an airport less than 20 miles from Everest] in hopes of getting out."Another survivor, Bhim Bahadur Khatri, told the Associated Press he was in a tent at Mt. Everest when the quake struck."We all rushed out to the open and the next moment a huge wall of snow just piled on me," he said. "I managed to dig out of what could easily have been my grave. I wiggled and used my hands as claws to dig as much as I could. I was suffocating, I could not breathe. But I knew I had to survive."He was flown to Kathmandu and taken to a hospital, the AP reported.The quake hit about 50 miles northwest of Kathmandu just before noon local time Saturday, according to the U.S. Geological Survey.At least 2,100 people have been killed in Nepal, the country's Interior Ministry told ABC News on Sunday.More than 1,000 others were injured, said the country's finance minister, Ram Sharan Mahat.At least 51 were also killed in India , 17 in Tibet , two in Bangladesh and two Chinese citizens died at the Nepal-China border.
5077.txt:Member of the delegation, Director of the MDA Medical Division, Dr. Rafi Strugo : We landed on Sunday evening after dark. Of course there was terrible chaos there. There were a lot of people in the terminal who were looking for a way to get out of the country. What stood out the most on the journey from the airport to the Israeli Embassy in Katmandu were the hundreds of thousands of people in the streets who were sleeping in tents and sleeping bags.
5077.txt:MDA Director General, Eli Bin, who lead the MDA delegation to Katmandu and who returned to Israel with the first group of babies: "The main task we had was to save lives. We managed to get to the Israelis in Katamandu quickly and to make sure that whoever needed medical attention would receive the best possible care, and to help the newborn babies and their parents who were in trouble and did not know what to do because of the damage caused by the earthquake, and to ensure their flights back to Israel. When we arrived emotions were running high and the conditions at the scene were very difficult. In the first moments it was truly difficult to get an exact picture of the situation and to know how many Israelis were injured and missing and what their medical condition was. We were busy trying to trace the Israelis with whom contact had been lost. Side by side with these tasks we joined up with the local medical teams and the Red Cross teams in order to give medical and humanitarian aid to the wounded who arrived at the hospitals in Katmandu. Over and above providing medical treatment to the Israelis, we found ourselves helping wherever possible, starting with changing diapers on the babies, and since there were no ground services at the airport we even helped load the cases of the parents and families onto the plane.
5081.txt:” ‘The bottleneck was the fact that the bureaucratic procedures were just so heavy,’ Jamie McGoldrick, the United Nations resident coordinator, said in an interview. ‘So many layers of government and so many departments involved, so many different line ministries involved. We don’t need goods sitting in Kathmandu warehouses. We don’t need goods sitting at the airport. We need them up in the affected areas.’ “The United States ambassador to Nepal, Peter W. Bodde, said he had spoken to Nepal‘s prime minister, Sushil Koirala, about the issue and ‘he assured me that all the red tape will be stopped.’ “
5082.txt:" 'The bottleneck was the fact that the bureaucratic procedures were just so heavy,' Jamie McGoldrick, the United Nations resident coordinator, said in an interview. 'So many layers of government and so many departments involved, so many different line ministries involved. We don't need goods sitting in Kathmandu warehouses. We don't need goods sitting at the airport. We need them up in the affected areas.'
5083.txt:Amy's parents were waiting for her on arrival at Belfast International Airport earlier.
5088.txt:18/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese girl injured in the earthquake holds the hand of her mother inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
5088.txt:19/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese victims of the earthquake lie inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
5088.txt:24/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded man on a makeshift stretcher to a waiting Indian air force helicopter as they evacuate victims of the earthquake from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
5088.txt:25/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person carries a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance after the child and mother were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu
5088.txt:26/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person walks carrying a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance as the mother follows after they were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu
5095.txt:The ministry officials, however, said the relief packages exceeding the airport’s load capacity will be refused. “The situation where the relief packages could exceed the load capacity should be brought in two shifts,” said Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Tara Prasad Pokhrel.
5098.txt:Nepal has only one international airport with a single runway. The airport and the runway were undamaged during the earthquake, but the airport officials say the traffic is higher than it can handle since the earthquake.
5100.txt:On Sunday, the government restricted the landing of large cargo aircraft at the congested airport to limit damage to the stressed runway. The UN has said 8 million of Nepal’s 28 million people had been affected by the quake, with at least 2 million needing tents, water, food and medicines over the next three months. A survey found that three-quarters of the buildings in Kathmandu had been destroyed or were unsafe.
5103.txt:The U.S. will help manage the growing piles of relief supplies clogging Nepal's only international airport in Kathmandu, which is struggling to distribute the aid arriving from around the world since the 7.8-magnitude quake.
5106.txt:Others have not been able to reach the Himalayan nation as quickly as they had hoped, because its one international airport has been functioning intermittently amid aftershocks.
5107.txt:In 1999, when an Indian Airlines aircraft was hijacked by Taliban terrorists who boarded the plane with a lot of arms from Kathmandu airport, Indian media made Nepal look like a lawless Somalia. Although satellite TV was still in its nascency, the then high-grossing Hindi news channel sensationalised the Nepali involvement to such levels that it described a Nepali businessman as an accomplice of the hijackers and broadcast his pictures. Indian print media competed with one another to do features, mostly with the same inputs from intelligence agencies, that presented Nepal as a haven for ISI’s anti-India operations. Those days, any Indian visitor to Kathmandu was met with an indignant Nepali.
5108.txt:I’m now safely back at home in the UK, having negotiated the chaos at Kathmandu airport yesterday to get one of the few flights out. I was with the family of a Nepal-based colleague being pushed along with a crowd of hundreds when the second quake hit. Instinctively, I grabbed my colleague’s young son and hunkered down by a wall. As the ground buckled and flexed I watched the screws supporting the large information display above our heads pop out one by one. It somehow clung onto to the wall but the electricity was down, the control tower was abandoned, the jagged marble floor cracked open, and there was yet more panic and shouting. But the plane did eventually take off. I feel very lucky to be back here in the UK and I can’t get those left behind out of my head.
5108.txt:Image credit/caption: BBC Media Action, People queue at the airport in Kathmandu after the earthquake
5110.txt:The Los Angeles Times reported on Saturday that up to 500 troops will arrive in Nepal in the coming days along with four vertical-takeoff Osprey aircraft, Army Chinook helicopters and C-130 cargo planes. According to Reuters, teams of soldiers with portable radars and including airstrip repair experts, will be sent to two provincial airports to facilitate the landing of heavy transports.
5110.txt:The dispatch of US troops takes place amid complaints from the UN and other agencies about the hold-up of supplies arriving at the Tribhuvan International Airport near Kathmandu and their distribution to quake-affected areas. Brigadier General Paul Kennedy, who is in charge of the US operations, told the media: “Nepal serves as the worst case scenario for military planners… It is land-locked and there are only a small number of useable airfields that will handle military-sized aircraft.”
5110.txt:Kennedy claimed that the US was not going to be involved in air-traffic control operations at the Kathmandu airport because that would raise issues of national sovereignty. “The last thing you really want to cede is the air tower, because they control who is coming and who is bringing what,” he said. In fact, as the Los Angeles Times reported, US officials have already extracted permission for specialist Air Force personnel to work closely with local air traffic staff.
5112.txt:Currently, relief supplies from various organizations are held up at airports and warehouses because of inspections required by Nepalese customs authorities. Aid organizations have shared their frustration with the slow process, urging Nepal to lift these procedures for the emergency situation.
5112.txt:"The bottleneck was the fact that the bureaucratic procedures were just so heavy ... So many layers of government and so many departments involved, so many different line ministries involved. We don’t need goods sitting in Kathmandu warehouses. We don’t need goods sitting at the airport. We need them up in the affected areas," Jamie McGoldrick of the United Nations told the New York Times.
511.txt:With Kathmandu airport reopened, the first aid flights began delivering supplies. China was among the first to respond, along with India and Pakistan.
5125.txt:Four "Osprey" tilt-rotor aircraft arrived at Kathmandu's airport Sunday, and another helicopter was flown in to the country aboard a giant C-17 plane.
5125.txt:"It's so distant, it's a land-locked country... There is a single point of entry through this (Kathmandu) international airport," he told Doane. "That makes it tough."
5125.txt:Even the runway at Kathmandu's airport presents a challenge, says Doane. It is in need of repair, and has been for a long time. On Sunday, officials said they'd begin enforcing a weight limit on aircraft flying into the airport -- banning the huge military and private cargo planes that had been used to get aid materials into the country in bulk.
5127.txt:Read how aid for Nepal is piling up at Katmandu airport because of import restrictions.
5138.txt:Runway damage closes Kathmandu airport; death toll rises
5138.txt:KATHMANDU, Nepal (AP) -- Runway damage forced Nepalese authorities to close the main airport Sunday to large aircraft delivering aid to millions of people following the massive earthquake, but U.N. officials said the overall logistics situation was improving.
5138.txt:The airport's main runway was temporarily closed to big planes because of damage. It was built to handle only medium-size jetliners, but not the large military and cargo planes that have been flying in aid supplies, food, medicines, and rescue and humanitarian workers, said Birendra Shrestha, the manager of Tribhuwan International Airport, located on the outskirts of Kathmandu.
5138.txt:There have been reports of cracks on the runway and other problems at the only airport capable of handling jetliners.
5138.txt:"You've got one runway, and you've got limited handling facilities, and you've got the ongoing commercial flights," said Jamie McGoldrick, the U.N. coordinator for Nepal. "You put on top of that massive relief items coming in, the search and rescue teams that have clogged up this airport. And I think once they put better systems in place, I think that will get better."
5138.txt:Kai Tabacek, a spokesman for the British charity Oxfam, said the main problem was that Kathmandu airport was too small "to deal with huge volume of traffic. Of course, there have been some delays, but these have more to do with the challenge of moving large volumes of goods than customs."
5138.txt:Airport congestion was only the latest complication in the global effort to aid people in the wake of the April 25 quake, the impoverished country's biggest and most destructive in eight decades.
5139.txt:Mercy Malaysia vice-president Dr Heng Aik Cheng said although there were many humanitarian aid, like food and medicines, arriving at Kathmandu Airport, they could not leave the tarmac due to these conditions.
5141.txt:Authorities had to temporarily close Kathmandu's main airport to large aircraft delivering aid due to runaway damage on Sunday, but U.N. officials said the overall logistics situation was improving.
5141.txt:The airport was built to handle only medium-size jetliners, but not the large military and cargo planes that have been flying in aid supplies, food, medicines, and rescue and humanitarian workers, said Birendra Shrestha, the manager of Tribhuwan International Airport.
5141.txt:There have been reports of cracks on the runway and other problems at the only airport capable of handling jetliners.
5141.txt:"You've got one runway, and you've got limited handling facilities, and you've got the ongoing commercial flights," said Jamie McGoldrick, the U.N. coordinator for Nepal. "You put on top of that massive relief items coming in, the search and rescue teams that have clogged up this airport. And I think once they put better systems in place, I think that will get better."
5144.txt:Relief supplies for earthquake victims have been piling up at the airport and in warehouses here because of bureaucratic interference by Nepalese authorities who insist that standard customs inspections and other procedures be followed, even in an emergency, Western government and aid organization officials said Sunday."The bottleneck was the fact that the bureaucratic procedures were just so heavy," Jamie McGoldrick, the U.N. resident coordinator, said in an interview. "So many layers of government and so many departments involved, so many different line ministries involved. We don't need goods sitting in Kathmandu warehouses. We don't need goods sitting at the airport. We need them up in the affected areas."The U.S. ambassador to Nepal, Peter W. Bodde, said he had spoken to Nepal's prime minister, Sushil Koirala, about the issue and "he assured me that all the red tape will be stopped."Also Sunday, three survivors were pulled from rubble in the Sindhupalchok district, an especially hard-hit and largely rural area north of Kathmandu.Officials of aid organizations and Western governments have been grumbling about the Nepalese government since the magnitude 7.8 earthquake struck the country April 25, killing more than 7,000 people. Early complaints accused the government of all but disappearing, a criticism that even top officials here acknowledged was fair."Everyone was panicked, everything was closed, and we all tried to save our own lives," Purna Bahadur Khadka, joint general secretary of the governing Nepali Congress, said in an interview at the prime minister's official residence. "And some critics can say there was no proper coordination for the first two days."But sometime over the past week, the government revived, Khadka said. And that is when, Western aid officials say, government officials began insisting that an entire list of rules must be followed, even for emergency relief supplies.Bodde said it was a problem that the United States intended to help fix, as a huge C-17 transport plane unloaded a UH-17 helicopter and, separately, four Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft flew into Nepal on Sunday to help carry supplies from Kathmandu to devastated rural areas."That's why we're here today," Bodde said as the C-17 rolled to a stop.But even that help had been delayed, according to Marine Lt. Col. Edward Powers, the helicopter pilot."We've been sitting on a ramp in Okinawa for the last 72 hours" waiting for permission to land at Kathmandu, Powers said at the airport.Minendra Rijal, the minister for information and communication and the government's official spokesman, denied that the government had slowed any delivery of aid."The accusations are false," Rijal said in a telephone interview. "It would be better if the U.N. involved itself more in its duties rather than engaging in criticizing the government."Yet McGoldrick said that delays were occurring not only at the Kathmandu airport but at border crossings with India and even at district headquarters across the country, and Nepalese journalists have quoted customs officials at the Indian border crossings as affirming that relief supplies needed to "go through strict inspections."McGoldrick said that while the government had loosened its requirements in the past day, time was essential."Planting season is six weeks away, and if you miss that you'll need to deliver food aid for another three months," he said. "The monsoon is coming in eight weeks. So it's very precarious."District officials said in a series of interviews that food and tents had yet to reach some remote villages because of transportation problems, not bureaucracy."The food supply is OK in the villages surrounding district headquarters, but we have not yet been able to make any normal supply in remoter parts of the districts," said Basudev Ghimire, the chief district officer of Dhading district.Anil Kumar Thakur, the chief district officer of Bhaktapur district, said bureaucratic requirements had prevented most distributions of cash under a plan to compensate families who suffered deaths."Although we have already started to distribute cash relief, it is not going well," Thakur added. "It requires verification letters from police and other documents that establishes relations with the deceased one."The bureaucracy and political machinery in Nepal are unusually independent of each other, which has mostly been a good thing over the past 10 years as the political process has been paralyzed by squabbling. Bureaucracy officials, however, take their jobs very seriously, and some might fear that if they do not document all aid distributions, they could later face accusations that they kept the goods for themselves.Outside Kathmandu, more victims of the earthquake were still being discovered. In the Langtang Valley in the northern Rasuwa district, according to Reuters, a police team found the bodies of about 50 people, including some foreigners, on a popular trekking route.Also Sunday, civil aviation authorities announced that they had closed the Kathmandu airport to the largest jets, or those weighing more than 196 metric tons, for fear they could damage the runways."We feared that the possible damage of our only international airport would invite further problems in the post-quake scenario, so the landing of heavy planes has now been restricted," said Birendra Prasad Shrestha, the airport's acting general manager.Shrestha said the government and humanitarian organizations involved in providing relief to earthquake victims are mounting pressure to lift that ban. "But we are not in favor" of doing so, he said, adding that permission for the C-17 to land had been arranged previously.
5145.txt:Focusing on the rescue works, the minister said that a Joint Working Level Team was working round the clock at Tribhuvan International Airport to facilitate the customs clearance of relief materials as per the indicative list of priority items determined by the government. He also said that the Prime Minister’s Disaster Relief Fund would ensure that the funds are utilised only for the search, rescue and relief operations.
5146.txt:Kathmandu’s main airport remained closed since Sunday to large aircraft delivering aid due to runaway damage, but U.N. officials said the overall logistics situation was improving.
5146.txt:The airport was built to handle only medium-size jetliners, but not the large military and cargo planes that have been flying in aid supplies, food, medicines, and rescue and humanitarian workers, said Birendra Shrestha, the manager of Tribhuwan International Airport.
5146.txt:There have been reports of cracks on the runway and other problems at the only airport in Nepal capable of handling jetliners.
5146.txt:“You’ve got one runway, and you’ve got limited handling facilities, and you’ve got the ongoing commercial flights,” said Jamie McGoldrick, the U.N. coordinator for Nepal. “You put on top of that massive relief items coming in, the search and rescue teams that have clogged up this airport. And I think once they put better systems in place, I think that will get better.”
5152.txt:U.S. Marines unload a UH-1Y Huey off of a Boeing C-17 Globemaster III onto Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, May 3. Marines brought a Huey, tools and equipment to support the government of Nepal. The Nepalese Government requested the U.S. Government’s help after a 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck their country, April 25. The Marines are with Marine Light Attack Helicopter Squadron 469, Marine Air Group 36, 1st Marine Aircraft Wing, III Marine Expeditionary Force. (U.S. Marine Corps photo by Lance Cpl. Mandaline Hatch/Released)
5157.txt:Meanwhile, United Nations Resident Representative Jamie McGoldrick said the government needed to loosen its normal customs restrictions, as criticism mounted over a pile-up of aid at Kathmandu airport, Nepal’s only international gateway.
5158.txt:The U.S. military personnel would help manage the mounting piles of relief supplies clogging Nepal's only international airport in Kathmandu.
5158.txt:The vital relief supplies for earthquake survivors are being held up by customs inspections at Kathmandu airport, a U.N. official said on Saturday.
5158.txt:U.N. Resident Representative Jamie McGoldrick said the Nepalese government must relax its normal customs restrictions to facilitate the flow of relief goods pouring in from abroad and piling up at the airport.
5159.txt:Because airports in Nepal have resumed operations, the Executive Yuan said it saw no need to launch a special operation to bring all of Taiwan's nationals home.
5170.txt:The announcement came as the Himalayan country was forced to close its only international airport to large jets because they are causing damage to its runway as they bring in aid, following last Saturday's 7.8 magnitude quake.
5174.txt:In the best of times, arriving at the Kathmandu Tribhuvan Airport after an interminable flight from the other side of the world can feel a lot like time travel. Today, the images coming out of the country suggest it is chaotic and log-jammed, with tons of relief and medical supplies arriving from all over the world, with China and India jockeying for favorite-neighbor status.
5192.txt:The team, four officers and their dogs from around the country, were at O.R. Tambo Airport in Johannesburg, waiting to board a flight when they learnt that they had been denied permission to board because the final ­signature approving their trip had not been obtained.
5192.txt:The press release said: “Haskins, who has 21 years of experience in search-and-rescue operations, was delighted that he will be able to use his skills and expertise to assist the victims of the Nepal earthquake disaster. He flew to the O.R. Tambo International Airport last night to join other search-and-rescue members from across the country. They are expected to leave this afternoon to Nepal.”
520.txt:Members of China International Search and Rescue Team arrive at Tribhuwan International Airport in Kathmandu April 26, 2015, after a strong earthquake hit Nepal on Saturday. (Xinhua/Zhou Shengping)
520.txt:Members of China International Search and Rescue Team arrive at Tribhuwan International Airport in Kathmandu April 26, 2015, after a strong earthquake hit Nepal on Saturday. (Xinhua/Zhou Shengping)
5229.txt:Just seventy kilometers south of Israel’s Ben Gurion International Airport, from where its rescue crews took off for Nepal, the Gaza Strip still lies in ruins, the product of the seven-week military assault that destroyed around 10,000 civilian homes and left at least 100,000 homeless. This week, Breaking the Silence, an organization of dissident Israeli soldiers, released testimony from troops involved in that operation describing orders they say created a permissive climate for killing civilians in Gaza. Since the conflict, according to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA), not a single home has been rebuilt. Residents of Gaza languish in rubble largely as a result of the refusal of the Israeli and Egyptian governments to allow rebuilding materials to enter the Hamas-controlled area.
5230.txt:The China International Search and Rescue team arrives at the Beijing Capital International Airport in Beijing, May 8, 2015. The team left Nepal on Friday after completing a 12-day quake rescue and relief operation, as one of the first heavy Urban Search and Rescue (USAR) team in Nepal after the earthquake on April 25. (Xinhua/Zhang Lupeng)
5230.txt:All the team's members, as well as six sniffer dogs, have returned safely, said team leader Huo Shufeng at Beijing Capital International Airport.
5233.txt:On Thursday, the body of 37-year-old Roser Palau – the only known Spanish victim of the Nepalese earthquake – was returned home to Barcelona. The ongoing chaos at the Kathmandu airport and government bureaucracy had hampered efforts to repatriate Palau’s remains.
5235.txt:In the Himalayas Mountain region, a student required helicopter evacuation to the nearby village of Lukla until weather conditions made further transportation possible. iJET was able to establish a safety check-in plan via SMS with the student. She was transported by vehicle convoy to Kathmandu the following day, a 107 mile journey. Due to overwhelmed commercial airlines, she spent the night in a hotel in Kathmandu until she could fly home the next day. iJET in-country security teams provided secure transportation to the airport, provided expedited flight check-in and maintained a presence at the airport until 30 minutes after flight departure to ensure the flight was able to successfully clear Nepal airspace.
5235.txt:In the southeast village of Dhulikhel, a person was stranded without a cellphone. Through note passing with other nearby students, iJET was able to initiate contact with her and establish an electronic leash for safety check-ins using other students' phones. iJET's global operations team set up refuge for her with a local French expatriate until evacuation plans could be implemented. Local roads were compromised by a landslide and though she had a plane ticket home, she was not able to make her original flight. iJET worked with its Incident Management Team on the ground to seek out alternate routes to safely transport her to Kathmandu airport the following day with a new plane ticket for a commercial flight home.
5238.txt:"We have pushed MV-22s and UH-1s into the Katmandu airport to help the people of Nepal. This is principally made up of four MV-22s and three UH-1 helicopters. We also have air field maintenance repair personnel on the ground to keep the airport functioning in an extremely pressurized situation involving the earthquake," Montgomery added.
5239.txt:“Afterwards, we volunteered at the local hospital and Kabindra even gave blood. I was unable to since I had contracted Dengue fever in Sumatra a week prior. We also went to the airport on one particular day and asked for donations from those who were leaving the country. We collected food, money, tents and sleeping bags,” Truglia mentioned.
5248.txt:A: I have not seen the report you mentioned. We have made clear China's solemn position on the long-lasting and massive land reclamation and military construction by a few countries in the South China Sea. A few countries, such as the Philippines and Vietnam, have long been undertaking large scale construction and land reclamation activities, and building fixed facilities including airports on the maritime features of the Nansha Islands that they have illegally seized from China. We are gravely concerned about and firmly opposed to those illegal activities. We urge relevant countries to immediately stop activities detrimental to China's sovereignty as well as rights and interests.
5257.txt:I stepped out into the dry, cool Nepal air outside of the airport at 3:30 a.m. and a series of unpleasant prospects dawned on me: One, my phone didn’t work; two, I had no Nepali money and the ATM was broken; and three, I didn’t have a ride. Another journalist from the team with which I was scheduled to work passed along the contact of a guy who could pick me up, but it was pushing 4 a.m., and my arrival was scheduled for 7 the night before. Even if the guy was awake, or free, I had no working phone with which to contact him. And then fourth problem: Even if a ride could be obtained, I had no destination, no hotel. All of that was supposed to be determined once I met my guy
5257.txt:I’m not entirely convinced that he was a real cabbie. His rate seemed steep, but he had a car, and with it came leverage. As we drove into Kathmandu from the airport, I saw buildings in the darkness that looked dilapidated, but nothing that jarred me. Living in Mumbai for half a decade now, the sight of a few decayed buildings doesn’t set off alarm bells. When we finally reached the Radisson, the desk agent rejected us.
5257.txt:I got in about an hour and half of sleep doing that before a mosquito bit the webbing between the index and middle fingers of my right hand, waking me up. I was able to brush my teeth, wash my face with yellowish sort of hand soap, and cram three granola bars into my face. Someone put a cup of black coffee under my line of sight, and I drank it. I still didn’t have a phone, or Wi-Fi, but I went out looking for a story anyway. When things did come back to life, I figured, it would be best to have something to submit to my editors. And that’s when the vibes I felt at the airport started to turn into actual experiences.
5257.txt:On the morning of April 28, I had ambitions of reporting from the basecamp of Mount Everest, where an avalanche decimated almost everything in its path. There were two ways of getting there, a man who worked at a hotel desk informed me. I could fly to a smaller airport and hike for six days, or rent a helicopter, which would cost a little more than $5,000 due to a fuel shortage. I had neither the time nor the travel budget to do either, so I went looking for something else to write. I stumbled across an article from the Israeli Ha’aretz, which trumpeted the arrival of Israeli troops to the Birendra Military Hospital on the outskirts of Kathmandu. Almost as an afterthought, the article mentioned the hospital was serving as one of the country’s primary trauma centers. It seemed like a decent place to look for a story.
5261.txt:“We are diplomats, this kind of work is not part of our diplomatic training,” exclaimed an Israeli diplomat. But by late evening, chief administrative officer of the Israeli embassy, Haim Levy had ensured that the supplies had been moved to the airport to be packed in the Hercules aircraft. At 11 pm the aircraft was enroute to Kathmandu.
5261.txt:Image: The helmet of an Israeli soldier and member of an aid delegation is seen as he waits for a flight to Nepal at Ben Gurion international airport near Tel Aviv, Israel. Photograph: Baz Ratner/Reuters
5279.txt:Having just returned from a week in Nepal, I want to be frank about two things. First, aid agencies including World Vision are intensely frustrated about the logistical challenges. We recognize that there's just one runway in the Kathmandu airport, and that any government would have difficulty coping with a natural disaster of this size and scope. But knowing these things -- and the fact that we've reached more than 10,000 people so far -- doesn't remove the pain of meeting cold, hungry families for whom we don't yet have provisions.
5282.txt:Four V-22 Ospreys arrived from the United States earlier this week and were initially much lauded. They have now received a lukewarm response after one of them blew off the roof of a house and the other only carried about 660 pounds of aid. An Osprey is said to be capable of carrying 20,000 pounds of internal cargo at twice the speed of a helicopter. There are also three British Chinook helicopters currently stuck in New Delhi, waiting for the Nepali government to allow them to land in Kathmandu. Nepal’s only international airport is already congested with helicopters and military planes from India, China, and the U.S., and officials say the Chinook would have a hard time operating in the mountainous terrain. The Nepalese army’s only Mi-17 helicopter, capable of carrying at least three tons in one flight, was reported to have suffered from technical issues during a rescue mission in northern Rasuwa district, a region famous for its scenic trekking routes. That leaves Nepal with no option but to mostly rely on India for ferrying aid to far-flung villages.
5289.txt:Thousands are still in need of essentials such as shelter, food and water. Many isolated villages in the mountains have yet to receive any aid. Relief efforts have been further hampered by rain, continuing aftershocks and landslides, damaged and destroyed infrastructure including roads, power outages and lack of communication and coordination. A ban on large planes flying to the airport has posed a challenge for agencies trying to fly aid into the country. Concerns are also growing over the approaching monsoon season which could worsen the conditions.
5294.txt:They are also involved in the relief efforts, providing tents and tarpaulins, wet weather and cold weather gear. There is a desperate need in the many villages where people have no shelter, especially with the monsoon season soon approaching. However, there are huge logistical challenges getting help to vulnerable people in remote areas. Congestion at Nepal’s only international airport, roads blocked by landslides and fuel shortages are making it difficult to transport aid to scattered communities across difficult mountainous terrain. The Trust is doing everything it can to reach people.
5297.txt:The delivery of supplies from the United States has also been fraught with delay: large cargo planes have proven too big for the runway at Kathmandus airport.
5298.txt:AirAsia Foundation today announced its second fund-raising drive this year to join global efforts in aid of Nepal after the devastating 7.8 magnitude earthquake of Apr 25, 2015. The campaign, which will take place from May 6 to May 22, 2015, will see donation boxes made available on board AirAsia flights and hub airports, in addition to on-going flight sponsorships for medical and relief aid workers.
5298.txt:AirAsia has also supported the recovery of Bali, Indonesia, after the terrorist bombings in 2005, by giving away 12,000 free seats on its flights. It mounted rescue flights from Bangkok to Kuala Lumpur in November 2008 to help people stranded by the closing of the airport in Bangkok. Similar rescue efforts were extended in Padang and Jakarta in October 2009 to help those affected by the 7.6-magnitude earthquake that hit Sumatra island.
5299.txt:Kobayashi also said it was difficult to coordinate with other foreign relief teams because Japan’s was delayed partly by congestion at the local airport.
5300.txt:Those missions would be impossible if not for the resiliency of the Nepalese people who've been working around the clock keep the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu up and running, said Marine Col. John Armellino, the chief of staff for 3rd Marine Expeditionary Brigade. That required a great deal of coordination as help began pouring in from "all corners of the world," he said.
5304.txt:In the case of the Nepal quake, one of the main challenges was the country's inability to utilize resources due to lack of coordination. Most of the workers had to be routed through the Nepalese Army which led to aid reaching the victims late and cramming up the country's international airport with piles of relief materials.
5304.txt:A combined effort from SAARC could have addressed this with a proper needs assessment and accurate data on the extent and loci of devastation. For streamlining international response, a proper mechanism for customs clearance and emergency cargo at the airport could have been arranged.
5307.txt:“We stayed most of the day [25 April], like everyone else, looking for airplanes to get there. We knew there was a very tiny airport [in Kathmandu] and that it was closed early on,” he said.
5308.txt:It all started early the previous morning when we landed in Kathmandu on a Bhutan Airlines flight from Paro. After clearing customs and storing our bags for the day we entered the bustling and chaotic environment of the Kathmandu airport. After getting vibes from a few taxi drivers that we were about to get swindled, we finally settled on a $4 fare to the nearby Hyatt hotel where we trusted that they could book us a fixed price driver in a car with seat belts for the day. Our first stop in Kathmandu was in the northwest corner of the city at the Monkey Temple. After urging Kai up a hundred or so steps we were finally able to hang out and see the monkeys and the great view. Or so we thought. As we have found in Dubai, people felt that it is perfectly acceptable to take photos of Kai. Some asked for pictures of themselves with Kai or for pictures of their kids with Kai. Others just snapped away at our family photos taking duplicates of whatever Chris and I were shooting. It is strange to say the least.
5318.txt:One day after the devastating temblor, Maas flew from an ashram in the Himalayas to Kathmandu to try to locate Gula and her other friends. When her ATM card failed to work at the airport, a local man behind her handed her 1,000 Nepalese rupees (about $10).
5319.txt:Officials said the British aircraft larger than the MI-17 would face hurdles flying in Nepal’s difficult terrain. Some national security concerns are also responsible for the halt, said a government official. The country’s only international airport is overcrowded with planes from India, China and the United States.
531.txt:Members of the IDF rescue mission wait in Ben Gurion International Airport (Photo: Yoav Zitun)
531.txt:Members of the mission line up in the airport (Photo: Roi Yanovsky)
5326.txt:Although it can’t be an excuse, poor management of earthquake relief was a given. Why were we even surprised? How could we expect the Nepali state to become the epitome of efficient management and speedy delivery overnight, just because there was an earthquake? In an ideal state, elected leaders would be forced to be decisive, to prioritise and act to ameliorate the massive suffering caused by this disaster. It would have streamlined procedures to receive maximum assistance instead of creating hurdles, it would have expedited delivery of urgent medical and food supplies to remote areas instead of letting it pile up at the airport, it would have encouraged donations to pour in instead of creating obstacles and obfuscation.
532.txt:While Katmandu’s airport remains open, disaster-relief experts already in Nepal said that less than a fifth of the regular daily flights were now arriving, as airlines were concerned about the effect of aftershocks.
5343.txt:U.S. Airmen and Nepalese service members dismount a pallet of humanitarian aid after an aircraft offload during Joint Task Force 505 humanitarian assistance and disaster relief at Tribhuvan International Airport, Kathmandu, Nepal, May 7. The Nepalese government requested the U.S. government's assistance after a 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck the country April 25. U.S Marines from III Marine Expeditionary Force came together with other services to provide unique capabilities to assist Nepal. (U.S. Marine Corps photo by MCIPAC Combat Camera Cpl. Sara A. Medina/Released)
5345.txt:The main airport is open, allowing tonness of aid into the country. Many organisations are now on the ground coordinating and conducting relief efforts: the World Health Organisation has sent supplies and medical personnel to assist with treating the injured. The World Food Programme is leading efforts around food allocation and coordinating logistics whilst UNHCR is providing 19,000 plastic sheets and 8,000 solar lamps for those displaced by the disaster. However, more supplies coming into the country have been delayed because of the bottleneck created at the country’s largest airport, which can only handle eight planes at any given time. The second airport in the city of Pokara is operating fully.
5345.txt:According to George Varughese, Nepal country representative for The Asia Foundation, "[we] are seeing that the Nepali government has a couple of bottlenecks in terms of delivering aid. They have neither a useful fast-track system for importing relief materials nor a useful system for receiving and warehousing relief materials.” As a result international relief materials have piled up at transit airports or border crossings. Further reports have indicated that foreign relief were held up at customs and aid trucks turned away at the border with India for not having the right documentation. Clearly in a country with a total annual GDP of $20 billion last year, an annual per capita GDP of only $1,000, Nepal has extremely limited capacity to mount an effective disaster relief. Capacity gaps must be plugged through external assistance. What is needed is a ramping up of consolidated and coordinated efforts by the government working alongside agencies and INGOs who are at the forefront of delivering aid.
5351.txt:"The airport was a shambles, and flights were limited, and many of the tea huts (along the way) were not standing any more," he said.
5351.txt:After the trekkers reached the village of Namche, an international evacuation group met them with a helicopter and flew them to Kathmandu on April 28. They then flew to New Delhi, India, on April 29, and Comet returned to Chicago's O'Hare Airport on May 1.
535.txt:18/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese girl injured in the earthquake holds the hand of her mother inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
535.txt:19/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese victims of the earthquake lie inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
535.txt:24/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded man on a makeshift stretcher to a waiting Indian air force helicopter as they evacuate victims of the earthquake from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
535.txt:25/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person carries a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance after the child and mother were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu
535.txt:26/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person walks carrying a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance as the mother follows after they were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu
5360.txt:Kobayashi also said it was difficult to coordinate with other foreign relief teams because Japan’s was delayed partly by congestion at the local airport.
5361.txt:Every world religion, the Gita, Bible, Quran and other ancient scriptures, have a reference to one maxim: that when giving help or charity, even your left hand shouldn’t know what the right hand is doing. When the deadly earthquake struck Nepal, India rushed in all it could at incredible speed: within six hours, officials said, the first Indian C-130s had landed at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, loaded with relief supplies.
5361.txt:How was it that the Tribhuvan airport tarmac was dotted with television journalists, even as officials complained that there wasn’t enough place to park their planes?
5366.txt:KIEV, May 7 (Xinhua) -- An aircraft IL-76 of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, carrying 87 people evacuated from quake-hit Nepal, arrived at the Boryspil International Airport early Thursday, authorities said.
536.txt:"Two Ilyushin Il-76 aircraft, carrying rescue crews and equipment to help in the aftermath of the earthquake in Nepal, have taken off from the Ramenskoye airport near Moscow," a spokesman for the ministry said.
5390.txt:GRATEFUL: Miss Menuka Gurung (extreme right) with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ Crisis Response Team at Kathmandu airport.
5390.txt:She was at Kathmandu airport last Friday to pick up her sister when she saw a group of people carrying the Singapore flag.
5392.txt:As a 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit Nepal on April 25, BBC Radio 5 Live reporter Nick Garnett had just returned to the UK from Malta, where he reported on the tragic death of refugees crossing the Mediterranean.Some 12 hours after news of the quake broke, Garnett was already on his way to Nepal to cover the devastation caused by the natural disaster, producing around 50 live reports as a one-man band working primarily with his iPhone."We knew it was going to be a complicated event," Garnett told Journalism.co.uk. "When I took off it wasn't even clear what was left in Kathmandu, we didn't know what it was going to be like."He packed his iPhone and iPad, both with audio broadcasting app Luci Live installed, a satellite terminal for areas with no cellular reception, a codec for audio broadcasting as well as safety equipment and a medical kit.This "quick turnaround" was important, as journalists showing up three or four days after an event find it hard to get involved, he said, and the speed at which he set off was only possible because he was going alone.Reporting from the aftermath of a quake meant sleeping outside, wearing face masks and witnessing terrible scenes common to any humanitarian disaster that did not make it into BBC reports.But there were also times when Garnett was able to give a live eyewitness account of rescue operations, like this report on the moment a 15 year-old boy was pulled from the rubble in Kathmandu.As he couldn't get a satellite signal from the scene, and he could not just record it for a later broadcast, he phoned in to the studio and started commentating on what he could see happening in front of him."That's the one that people think was very exciting because they felt that they were there and they were seeing what I was seeing.""That was a case of I got all these tools, I got all this kit, I've done all this stuff on mobile journalism, but at the end of the day the most important thing is the event."Working alone can mean compromise, and at times Garnett had to take on different roles to focus on the production side or the technology involved rather than the journalism itself.And it wasn't long until things started to go wrong – cables started breaking, batteries died, and some equipment had to be fixed with blue tack to get it working again."[But] you can't be in a position where your kit is determining whether or not you can get on the air."So he tries to use equipment you can buy on the high-street, that can be replaced if necessary."If brick dust gets inside an iPhone and it falls apart, you have to be able to go and get another phone from somewhere," he said.He picked up large capacity iPhone batteries from the airport on his way out for example. "I'm really keen on the idea of using consumer electronics in a professional way."Garnett also made use of livestreaming app Periscope to broadcast the moment he walked into a Nepalese village the army hadn't reached yet.The stream showed the complete devastation of the village's food market, and was only possible as the area had an inexplicably good 3G network.But he said his reports, while mobile phone based, would not have been possible if he hadn't brought a satellite."You just have to be pragmatic, you just have to say what piece of equipment will work in these circumstances and go for that. You have to choose the right tool for the job."
540.txt:"When the quake struck, I was in my hotel. The whole building shook like a log against wind and I hurriedly got out," Goutam Bhadra, an executive of a multinational company, said.Similar was the experience of Sanjor Ghosh of Chetla, who said he ran out of his hotel and went to an open place nearby where many like him were already there."I thought our lives ended the way the buildings shook and crumbled. We returned from the jaws of death," a couple, Durba Ghosh and Dhrubajyoti Ghosh, said.The special Air India flight had left Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International airport for Kathmandu at 7 AM with 50 passengers on board, mostly journalists, and relief materials.When a fresh tremor struck today, state Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was walking towards the lounge of the NSCBI airport to catch a flight to Siliguri.Eyewitnesses said many waiting passengers at the lounge scampered out in fear.
5424.txt:The destruction from the quake has also significantly affected poor, rural communities, leaving them without power, sanitation or shelter. The Nepali government has come under fire for permitting bureaucratic interference to hinder supplies and aid from quickly reaching the hardest hit areas. Newsweek reports that the Nepali government released a statement on May 3 denouncing these critics. However, daily reports are still coming in that relief aid and resources are amassing at the Kathmandu airport.
5429.txt:With that farewell, Eric made his way back to Kathmandu. He was at the airport and within minutes of departure from Nepal when the earth began heaving. A short time later, he received the terrible news.
5429.txt:On the morning of April 25, Eric awaited his flight home to Los Angeles at the airport in Kathmandu. He couldn’t wait to see his wife, Blair, and 9-year-old daughter Cortez.
5429.txt:The helicopter traversed peaks and made its way back to the airport at Lukla. Eric waited for a little over an hour at a makeshift police station, where officers sat at a wobbly desk with helicopter seats and handwrote death certificates.
5429.txt:At the Kathmandu airport, an ambulance rushed Tom’s body to a morgue at the U.S. Embassy to be prepared for cremation.
5434.txt:The Profit Group, which runs the local Cars Taxi franchise, told Doha News earlier this week that it had arranged for four Nepali drivers whose families were affected by last month’s earthquake to be flown to an Indian airport close to the Nepal border.
5445.txt:Officials said the British aircraft larger than the MI-17 would face hurdles flying in Nepal’s difficult terrain. Some national security concerns are also responsible for the halt, said a government official. The country’s only international airport is overcrowded with planes from India, China and the United States.
5447.txt:Figuring out how to assign different organizations non-overlapping tasks is the biggest priority of organizations like the United Nation’s Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. OCHA runs a booth at the airport to greet incoming groups and tries to organize them into a cohesive response to reach many different villages, with varying levels of success.
5457.txt:Crowds milling at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu on the second day after the quake, as people looked to leave Nepal. (Photo: Joshua Chua)
5460.txt:As the aircraft revs up for a take-off from Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport to take me back home to India, I take with me memories of meeting the kindest, purest and humblest people I have come across.
5460.txt:To conclude, the state of Nepal must brace up and address the palpable discontent among its citizens. It is hardly hidden how the airport at Kathmandu is overflowing with relief while just nothing of it is reaching those who need it.
5468.txt:U.S. Marine Corps MV-22B Ospreys arrive at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, May 3. The aircraft are with Marine Medium Tiltotor Squadron 262, Marine Aircraft Group 36, 1st Marine Aircraft Wing, III Marine Expeditionary Force. Courtesy photo by Natalie Hawwa, USAID/OFDA
5472.txt:However, on 27 April 2015, flight TG319 from Bangkok to Kathmandu was unable to land atTribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu due to priority landing for the rescue plane in place by the government of Nepal, whereby rescue aircraft are mainly military aircraft transporting emergency goods. As well, Tribhuvan International Airport was heavily congested, with two aircraft parked on the taxi way and lack of aircraft parking bays, and as a result flight TG319 returned to Bangkok on01:10 hours on 28 April 2015 and departed as special flight TG3199 on 28 April 2015 from Bangkok to Kathmandu at 09:15 hours. Today’s flight TG319 departed as normally scheduled at 10:15 hours.
5495.txt:The team was left frustrated upon their arrival last week‚ with their luggage and vital rescue equipment having been stuck at the Singapore airport for 48 hours. By the time it arrived‚ their chances of finding survivors trapped in the rubble after the 7.8-magnitude earthquake were already slim.
5511.txt:The chaotic situation at Nepal’s international airport is delaying the repatriation of the first known Spanish victim of the April 25 earthquake.
5517.txt:Ranveig says her team encountered several challenges setting up the new mobile hospital. They had to wait several days for their equipment and medical supplies to pass through the congested Kathmandu airport, which has seen an enormous increase in traffic since the earthquake. And delivering the materials to the remote Chautara township meant navigating rubble-covered roads that snake through the mountainous region. “But we managed. We did a lot of road clearance, and it took a bit longer than expected to get here, but it is an earthquake, so what do you expect?” she asks.
5524.txt:Third item: Nepal. USAID Acting Administrator Alfonso Lenhardt wrapped up his visit to Nepal today with an announcement of an additional $11 million in assistance for Nepal earthquake response and recovery efforts. This brings total U.S. humanitarian assistance for this disaster to nearly $26 million. This includes 2.2 million of logistical support from the Department of Defense. Acting Director Lenhardt, Ambassador Bodde, and Lieutenant General Wissler met with Prime Minister Sushil Koirala to discuss use of the U.S. military’s air – excuse me – air capabilities and the broader disaster response effort. Our Disaster Assistance Response Team and U.S. military conducted aerial assessments of earthquake-affected districts and they are also working with the Government of Nepal on how best to streamline airfield operations, speed up cargo flow, and improve efficiency at the airport. The United States in coordination with Nepal flew three missions to a region 80 miles east of Kathmandu to deliver urgently needed emergency shelter kits. And more than one week after the April 25th earthquake, international foreign rescue teams are starting to leave Nepal as the country shifts from the rescue phase to relief and recovery efforts. USAID is demobilizing the urban search and rescue members of its Disaster Assistance Response Team and preparing for their return to Fairfax County, Virginia and Los Angeles County, California in the coming days.
5524.txt:QUESTION: -- humanitarian deliveries were conducted via air, by airplanes and so on, and the Saudis – or the Saudi-led coalition bombed the airports and depriving flights from landing, do you have any comment on that? I mean, how would you get humanitarian aid if the Saudis keep bombing these airports where these humanitarian flights (inaudible)?
5524.txt:MR RATHKE: Well, I think you’re referring to one specific instance at one airport, if I’m not mistaken. Is that --
5524.txt:QUESTION: No, I think most airports are inoperable today.
5532.txt:29/04/2015. Members of the Gift of the Givers pack their gear after arriving at Tribhuvan International Airport in Nepal. Picture: Masi Losi
5536.txt:When news broke of the devastating earthquake that struck Nepal, I had just returned from my 20th trip to Haiti and was tragically reminded of what we faced in the early hours following the Haiti earthquake. Like Port au Prince in Haiti at the time of the 2010 earthquake, Kathmandu in Nepal is a city with many homes that are not earthquake-resistant and it is now confronted with the challenges of bringing relief supplies for hundreds of thousands of people into a city with one small airport and many impassable roads.
5541.txt:Having been registered missing by the Red Cross, they were airlifted from Talu by helicopter and flew into Manchester Airport on Saturday.
554.txt:The 24 infants born in recent days to surrogate mothers in Nepal are waiting with their Israeli parents to be evacuated following the lethal earthquake which struck the area on Saturday morning. Nine of the infants were born premature and one is in serious condition. The Foreign Ministry told Ynet that it planned to fly out the families in helicopters from Nepal to neighboring India because the airport in Kathmandu was closed. The babies will fly to Israel from India. The ministry said the process was complex but was being undertaken “transparently with the Nepalese.”
5552.txt:Similarly, 1,000 kg of 'parantha' sent through cargo were also found substandard and fungus-laced. Tribhuvan International Airport authorities destroyed these on Thursday.
5561.txt:"At 03.53 Kyiv time on May 7 a Ukrainian Defense Ministry Il-76 landed at Boryspil international airport. An expedition led by acting Head of the Emergency Service Zorian Shkiriak, 87 evacuees, 76 of whom are Ukrainians and 11 are citizens of other states, Emergency Service employees, a group of diplomats from Ukraine's Foreign Ministry and journalists were on board," reads the statement.
5566.txt:The department spokesperson Purna Chandra Wasti told the news portal that the bread was past the expiry date even before being sent from India. Similarly, 1000 kg of paratha (there was no brand name provided) had developed fungus. The entire pack was destroyed at the airport itself.
5567.txt:In the Himalayas Mountain region, a student required helicopter evacuation to the nearby village of Lukla until weather conditions made further transportation possible. iJET was able to establish a safety check-in plan via SMS with the student. She was transported by vehicle convoy to Kathmandu the following day, a 107 mile journey. Due to overwhelmed commercial airlines, she spent the night in a hotel in Kathmandu until she could fly home the next day. iJET in-country security teams provided secure transportation to the airport, provided expedited flight check-in and maintained a presence at the airport until 30 minutes after flight departure to ensure the flight was able to successfully clear Nepal airspace.
5567.txt:In the southeast village of Dhulikhel, a person was stranded without a cellphone. Through note passing with other nearby students, iJET was able to initiate contact with her and establish an electronic leash for safety check-ins using other students' phones. iJET's global operations team set up refuge for her with a local French expatriate until evacuation plans could be implemented. Local roads were compromised by a landslide and though she had a plane ticket home, she was not able to make her original flight. iJET worked with its Incident Management Team on the ground to seek out alternate routes to safely transport her to Kathmandu airport the following day with a new plane ticket for a commercial flight home.
5568.txt:A plane with the Ukrainians evacuated from Nepal landed at Boryspil airport / Photo by UNIAN
556.txt:The quake ripped through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country's only international airport, which was briefly closed.
560.txt:Nine of the infants were born premature and one is in serious condition. The Foreign Ministry told Ynet that it planned to fly out the families in helicopters from Nepal to neighboring India because the airport in Kathmandu was closed.
560.txt:The Foreign Ministry will offer Israelis a ride home on the plane. Meanwhile, the plan has yet to be set in motion because the local airport remains closed.
5616.txt:Relief aid group Oxfam says congestion at Kathmandu airport, blocked roads, fuel shortages and difficult terrain are slowing down the pace of aid delivery.
5624.txt:Mr Flanagan said that Ireland is responding “to the best of our ability”, with humanitarian aid due to total “up to €1 million”. The first of three airlifts, worth over €500,000 in total, has left for Kathmandu airport from the UN humanitarian response depot in Dubai, UAE, where Ireland stores supplies for use in global emergencies.
5627.txt:The Mount Everest south base camp in Nepal is seen a day after a huge earthquake-caused avalanche killed at least 17 people, in this photo courtesy of 6summitschallenge.com taken on April 26, 2015 and released on April 27, 2015. REUTERS/6summitschallenge.com A Nepalese boy talks on a mobile phone near a damaged minaret of a mosque in Kathmandu, Nepal, Tuesday, April 28, 2015. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri) Tourists from Vietnam access the Internet from their mobile phones while waiting for their flight at Tribhuvan International Airport after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar National Disaster Response Force from Indian paramilitary force works to recover the dead bodies from a collapsed house after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar Tourists stand in front of the Departure gate of Tribhuvan International Airport as they wait for their flight after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar An Indian woman cries as she waits to take a flight back to her country after an earthquake at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar A girl cries as her family takes refuge at Tribhuvan International Airport after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar Tourists wait to board their flights at Tribhuvan International Airport after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar Tourists wait to board their flights at Tribhuvan International Airport after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar A tourist from the Netherlands waiting for her flight sleeps in a sleeping bag at Tribhuvan International Airport after returning from the Everest Base in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar An Australian tourist reads a book as she waits for her flight at Tribhuvan International Airport after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar People sleep on the ground in an open area on early morning after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Adnan Abidi An earthquake victim carries her baby on her back as she stands outside her makeshift shelter on open ground in the early hours in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Adnan Abidi A man prays next to rubble of a temple, destroyed in Saturday's earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Adnan Abidi A prayer bell is seen on top of the rubble of a damaged temple after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Adnan Abidi Royal Thai Air Force personnel load food and relief supplies for Nepal at the military airport in Bangkok, Thailand, April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Chaiwat Subprasom Thai Armed Forces medical team walk to a C-130 cargo plane at the military airport in Bangkok, Thailand, April 28, 2015. The Royal Thai Armed Forces sent 67 medical and rescue personnel to assist the earthquake victims in Nepal, according to The Royal Thai Armed Forces authorities. REUTERS/Chaiwat Subprasom Thai Armed Forces rescue team prepare to board a C-130 cargo plane at the military airport in Bangkok, Thailand, April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Chaiwat Subprasom People sleep inside a makeshift shelter on open ground, early morning after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Adnan Abidi In this April 27, 2015 photo, locals watch rescue teams try to remove the body of a 12-year-old girl from a collapsed home in Kathmandu, Nepal. A strong earthquake shook Nepal's capital and the densely populated Kathmandu Valley on Saturday. (AP Photo/Wally Santana) People sit on the rubble of a collapsed building following an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal in this Red Cross handout picture taken on April 27, 2015. REUTERS/IFRC/Palani Mohan/Handout via Reuters In this April 27, 2015 photo, rescue teams search for bodies in the collapsed Sitapyla church in Kathmandu, Nepal. A strong earthquake shook Nepal's capital and the densely populated Kathmandu Valley on Saturday. (AP Photo/Wally Santana) An earthquake victim carries her baby on her back as she stands outside her makeshift shelter on open ground in the early hours in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Adnan Abidi Tents are set up in an open area near multi-storey buildings following an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal in this Red Cross handout picture taken on April 27, 2015. REUTERS/IFRC/Palani Mohan/Handout via Reuters People gather on a road as traffic is affected by a landslide caused by an earthquake, in Kurintar, Nepal April 27, 2015. REUTERS/Athit Perawongmetha The Mount Everest south base camp in Nepal is seen a day after a huge earthquake-caused avalanche killed at least 17 people, in this photo courtesy of 6summitschallenge.com taken on April 26, 2015 and released on April 27, 2015. REUTERS/6summitschallenge.com Video taken from a drone Saturday April 25 2015 shows devastation in the Nepalese capital Kathmandu, caused by Saturday's quake that measured 7.8 on the Richter Scale. (AP Photo / KISHNOR RANA) Nepalese carry the body of their relative killed in the recent earthquake for cremation at the Pashupatinath temple, on the banks of Bagmati river, in Kathmandu, Nepal, Monday, April 27, 2015. (AP Photo / Manish Swarup) Nepalese people affected by the recent earthquake queue to receive food from a non governmental organization, in Kathmandu, Nepal, Monday, April 27, 2015. (AP Photo / Manish Swarup) Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded man on a makeshift stretcher to a waiting Indian air force helicopter as they evacuate victims of Saturdays earthquake from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal, Monday, April 27, 2015. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri)
5627.txt:Some areas believed to have been badly affected by the quake are now going into their sixth day without outside assistance. Meanwhile, the UN is warning that the airport at Kathmandu is “swamped” with aid containers full of food, medicines and tents, and increased pressure on the Nepal government to act. *To donate to help Goal's work in Nepal please visit www.goalglobal.org
5633.txt:At the Heydar Aliyev International Airport, the evacuated people told reporters they thank President Ilham Aliyev for instructing the Ministry of Emergency Situations to evacuate them from Nepal.
5636.txt:The amount of emergency aid needed for such a large-scale disaster outstrips the capacity of Kathmandu’s small international airport, which is receiving an extremely high volume of aid flights now coming into Nepal.
5637.txt:Inside the Kathmandu valley, the lives are slowly getting stable. The electricity has been resumed in some places and the only international airport of entire country, Tribhuvan International Airport is functioning at its peak. And the support and rescue teams have arrived from all over the world! All the security and rescue mechanism have been deployed. Despite all these efforts, the help and assistance for the people is still not enough! Not any of the rescue team or mechanism has been able to reach the remote areas along the periphery of Kathmandu Valley, let alone the places in the middle of massive and majestic hills and mountains of Nepal. In some places, the situation seems so hopeless that it is so felt that the people are waiting to die, rather than waiting to be rescued! The bodies submerged under the debris of their own homes are not yet collected. There is a log of reported deaths only, but no updates on missing people so far! The people are in hurry to go back to their homes in villages, and mainly leave Kathmandu Valley in fear that any disease may outbreak or scarcity of basic needs (food, shelter, security, etc) may occur.
5637.txt:Everyone are working at their level best to help the needy in Nepal, in any way they could at any level! We, members of Rotaract Club of Yala have sent our first relief materials to Kunchowk, a village of Sindhupalchowk District, around 20 KM from the district headquarter, Chautara. Thanks to Rtr. Lawa Krishna Shrestha and Sanju Maya Tamang! And other supports are being extended to the needy within Kathmandu and Lalitpur, so far! We have recently received some relief materials for earthquake victims, from our loyal friends in Thailand, but, facing huge problems with custom regulations to get them out of the airport!
563.txt:The delegation will bring with it 95 tons of equipment for 14 full days of operation. It will take off this evening from Ben Gurion International Airport for Kathmandu in two El Al Boeing planes. One will be a transport plane and the other a passenger plane that will also carry equipment.
5640.txt:When we arrived in Haiti, we knew that food and fresh water would be an issue. Prior to departure, our team received advice that we should pack several days of supplies for ourselves. We did – and those supplies were either mishandled at the airport and given away to other volunteers, or given away to survivors who were begging for help.
5653.txt:Photo: JACK GUEZ / AFP/Getty Images Image 1 of / 8 Caption Close Image 2 of 8 Israeli medics carry the babies of a homosexual couple who had three infants born to surrogate mothers in Nepal after they arrived at Ben Gurion airport near Tel Aviv on April 28, 2015, following their repatriation from the quake-hit Himalayan nation. Israel began repatriating its nationals from Nepal on April 27, 2015, including two groups of babies born to surrogate mothers in Kathmandu whose fathers are homosexual Israelis, officials said. less Israeli medics carry the babies of a homosexual couple who had three infants born to surrogate mothers in Nepal after they arrived at Ben Gurion airport near Tel Aviv on April 28, 2015, following their ... more Photo: JACK GUEZ / AFP/Getty Images Image 3 of 8 Israeli homosexual men, one of them carrying a baby born to a surrogate mother in Nepal, disembark a plane at Ben Gurion airport near Tel Aviv on April 28, 2015, following their repatriation from the quake-hit Himalayan nation. Israel began repatriating its nationals from Nepal on April 27, 2015, including two groups of babies born to surrogate mothers in Kathmandu whose fathers are homosexual Israelis, officials said. less Israeli homosexual men, one of them carrying a baby born to a surrogate mother in Nepal, disembark a plane at Ben Gurion airport near Tel Aviv on April 28, 2015, following their repatriation from the quake-hit ... more Photo: JACK GUEZ / AFP/Getty Images Image 4 of 8 An Israeli homosexual father carries his baby born to a surrogate mother in Nepal as he is cheered by relatives at Ben Gurion airport near Tel Aviv on April 28, 2015, following his repatriation from the quake-hit Himalayan nation. Israel began repatriating its nationals from Nepal on April 27, 2015, including two groups of babies born to surrogate mothers in Kathmandu whose fathers are homosexual Israelis, officials said. less An Israeli homosexual father carries his baby born to a surrogate mother in Nepal as he is cheered by relatives at Ben Gurion airport near Tel Aviv on April 28, 2015, following his repatriation from the ... more Photo: JACK GUEZ / AFP/Getty Images Image 5 of 8 TEL AVIV, ISRAEL - APRIL 28: Israelis from the Israeli rescue organization, Magen David Adom hold babies from surrogate mothers in Nepal after they disembark from an Israeli rescue plane after it landed at Ben Gurion Airport on April 28, 2015 in Tel Aviv, Israel. A plane carrying 229 Israelis who were stranded in earthquake-hit Nepal landed at Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion International Airport early Tuesday afternoon. Among the passengers were 15 newborns, including three premature babies. less TEL AVIV, ISRAEL - APRIL 28: Israelis from the Israeli rescue organization, Magen David Adom hold babies from surrogate mothers in Nepal after they disembark from an Israeli rescue plane after it landed at ... more Photo: Lior Mizrahi / Getty Images Image 6 of 8 TEL AVIV, ISRAEL - APRIL 28: Israeli travelers with their new born babies from surrogate mothers in Nepal disembark from an Israeli rescue plane after it landed at Ben Gurion Airport on April 28, 2015 in Tel Aviv, Israel. A plane carrying 229 Israelis who were stranded in earthquake-hit Nepal landed at Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion International Airport early Tuesday afternoon. Among the passengers were 15 newborns, including three premature babies. less TEL AVIV, ISRAEL - APRIL 28: Israeli travelers with their new born babies from surrogate mothers in Nepal disembark from an Israeli rescue plane after it landed at Ben Gurion Airport on April 28, 2015 in Tel ... more Photo: Lior Mizrahi / Getty Images Image 7 of 8 TEL AVIV, ISRAEL - APRIL 28: Israelis from the Israeli rescue organization, Magen David Adom hold babies from surrogate mothers in Nepal after they disembark from an Israeli rescue plane after it landed at Ben Gurion Airport on April 28, 2015 in Tel Aviv, Israel. A plane carrying 229 Israelis who were stranded in earthquake-hit Nepal landed at Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion International Airport early Tuesday afternoon. Among the passengers were 15 newborns, including three premature babies. less TEL AVIV, ISRAEL - APRIL 28: Israelis from the Israeli rescue organization, Magen David Adom hold babies from surrogate mothers in Nepal after they disembark from an Israeli rescue plane after it landed at ... more Photo: Lior Mizrahi / Getty Images Image 8 of 8 Israel evacuates surrogate babies from Nepal, leaves mothers behind 1 / 8 Back to Gallery
565.txt:The team, made up of doctors, paramedics, and headed by MDA head Eli Bin, took off from Sde Dov airport in Tel aviv, and was due to land at Kathmandu on Sunday evening.
5671.txt:18/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese girl injured in the earthquake holds the hand of her mother inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
5671.txt:19/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese victims of the earthquake lie inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
5671.txt:24/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded man on a makeshift stretcher to a waiting Indian air force helicopter as they evacuate victims of the earthquake from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
5671.txt:25/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person carries a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance after the child and mother were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu
5671.txt:26/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person walks carrying a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance as the mother follows after they were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu
5685.txt:It was an emotional reunion for Megan Evans as the tearful 18-year-old hugged her mother Michelle, a GP, after touching down at Stansted Airport at 3am yesterday.
5722.txt:However, the Nepal mission required a bit more patience than previous trips as much of the group’s equipment and cargo had been held up at various airports.
5758.txt:♦ Rescue of Pema Lama, 15, a rare moment of joy in Kathmandu ♦ But overall outlook bleak: Hundreds sick from waterborne illnesses.A 15-year-old boy was pulled out alive from the collapsed ruins of Kathmandu's Hilton Hotel on Thursday and is recovering in hospital, five days after a huge earthquake caused devastation across Nepal and killed nearly 6,000.Pema Lama was rescued by Nepal's Armed Police Force and was put in a neck brace and carried on a stretcher to a waiting ambulance. Hundreds of onlookers broke into applause when they saw that the teenager was alive.Lama was conscious, held the hand of one of his rescuers and looked towards a large group of news crews as he was brought to safety. "When the quake came, I got hit on my chin and when I tried to come out I was trapped. I was on the ground (floor) only. We were eating while the earthquake came," Lama said at a Israeli military-run field hospital. "I never thought I would make it out alive."Libby Weiss, a spokeswoman at the hospital, said Lama was doing remarkably well, confirming he did not have any major injuries. "He was under the rubble for 120 hours and it is certainly the longest we have heard anybody of being under the rubble and surviving," she said.Lama's rescue is a rare moment of joy for a country overwhelmed by the disaster. Officials said on Thursday that the chances of finding more survivors were fading, particularly in hardhit rural areas where aid has yet to reach.While rescuers were out in the capital despite heavy morning rain, helicopters could not fly to the worst-hit areas in the countryside of the Himalayan nation. "The rain is adding to the problems. Nature seems to be against us," said Rameshwor Dandal, chief of the disaster management centre at Nepal's home ministry.Anger over the pace of the rescue has flared up in some areas, with Nepalis accusing the government of being too slow to distribute international aid that flooded into the country. In Ashrang village in Gorkha, one of the worst-hit districts, hundreds of Nepali villagers were living out in the open with little food and water despite boxes of biscuits, juices and sacks of rice and wheat being stored in a nearby government office.In Kathmandu and other cities, hospitals are overflowing with injured. "The new waves of patients are those who survived the quake, but are sick because they were living in the open and drinking contaminated water," said Dr Binay Pandey at Bir Hospital in the capital.Dr Pandey said at least 1,200 patients suffering from water-borne illnesses had been admitted in the hospital since Wednesday morning.Relief aid group Oxfam says congestion at Kathmandu airport, blocked roads, fuel shortages and difficult terrain are slowing down the pace of aid delivery. The group is looking at ways to transport essential goods overland from India. It says challenges include getting aid to remote mountain villages, many of which are connected by a single dirt road.Five-month-old Sonit Awal, who was pulled out unhurt from the rubble of a building in the ancient Nepal city of Bhatkapur, has been reunited with his mother. Sonit was trapped under the debris for 22 hours.Pakistan reportedly sent packets of "beef masala" as part of its relief supplies to Nepal, which has a majority Hindu population. Indian doctors at Kathmandu's Bir Hospital said that beef masala packets were sent by Pakistan on Tuesday, according to a report.
5759.txt:The amount of emergency aid needed for such a large-scale disaster outstrips the capacity of Kathmandu's small and the country's only international airport, which is receiving an extremely high volume of aid flights now coming into Nepal, it said.
5762.txt:Debra Kamin reports for Time that an Israeli Boeing 747 flew back to Ben Gurion International Airport carrying 15 Israeli babies all born to surrogate mothers in Nepal.
5762.txt:Social activist Alon-Lee Green writes in the Israeli newspaper Haaretz that he’s deeply disturbed that all those touching human-interest stories about Israeli fathers stuck in Nepal with their new babies and photographs of joyful reunions at the Ben Gurion airport in his country’s media do not mention the plight of the women who carried these babies.
5764.txt:a £5 million package to provide a further team of 30 trauma medics, logistical support and equipment to ease congestion at Kathmandu Airport and humanitarian experts in water, health and sanitation; and
5768.txt:The U.S. military would help manage the growing piles of relief supplies clogging Nepal's only international airport, which has struggled to distribute all the aid arriving from around the world since the earthquake.
5768.txt:Kennedy did not say how extensive the U.S. presence in Nepal would grow after the initial arrival of four vertical take-off Osprey aircraft, two Bell Hueys and equipment such as forklift trucks to help move relief supplies at the airport.
5768.txt:Teams of soldiers carrying portable radars and including airstrip repair experts, will be sent to enable two provincial airports to receive heavy transport flights day and night.
5768.txt:The airports being considered to relieve the pressure on the international airport include one at trekking destination Pokhara and another near the birthplace of Buddha.
5768.txt:He said the United States would not be involved in air-traffic operations at Kathmandu airport, which would raise questions of sovereignty.
5769.txt:Auerbach said getting supplies delivered is the biggest obstacle at the moment. The delays are chiefly due to the limited capacity of the Kathmandu airport. In particular, orthopedic surgery supplies are needed, as well as sanitation supplies.
5773.txt:The U.S. military would help manage the growing piles of relief supplies clogging Nepal's only international airport, which has struggled to distribute all the aid arriving from around the world since the earthquake.
5773.txt:Kennedy did not say how extensive the U.S. presence in Nepal would grow after the initial arrival of four vertical take-off Osprey aircraft, two Bell Hueys and equipment such as forklift trucks to help move relief supplies at the airport.
5773.txt:Teams of soldiers carrying portable radars and including airstrip repair experts, will be sent to enable two provincial airports to receive heavy transport flights day and night.
5773.txt:The airports being considered to relieve the pressure on the international airport include one at trekking destination Pokhara and another near the birthplace of Buddha.
5773.txt:He said the United States would not be involved in air-traffic operations at Kathmandu airport, which would raise questions of sovereignty.
5777.txt:Plane carrying Azerbaijani, Georgian nationals from Nepal lands at Baku airport - PHOTOSESSION
5777.txt:Baku. Farahim Gasimov – APA. By the order of Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev, on April 29 the humanitarian aid was successfully delivered to Nepal on board of the BE-200CS plane. APA TV reports that as a continuation of the execution of the presidential order, the airplane carried on its way back 13 Azerbaijani and 4 Georgian citizens evacuated from the quake-affected area of Nepal. The plane landed at Heydar Aliyev International Airport on May 1 at 07:15 local time.
5779.txt:Relieved ... Australian evacuees wait to be transferred to RAAF transport planes at a terminal in Kathmandu International Airport. Photo: Matt Wade
5779.txt:The relief was palpable as the group gathered at Kathmandu International Airport on Thursday evening to take the flights arranged by the Australian government. The aircraft unloaded emergency relief supplies to be distributed in Nepal before the 106 evacuees boarded.
577.txt:Charities assembled disaster teams but the most convenient pathway into Nepal — one of the world’s poorest countries — was not available because the international airport in Kathmandu was shut down.
5781.txt:They were taken to the airport and ushered quickly onto the tarmac with the help of consular staff.
5784.txt:Link Nepal quake survivor Camille Thomas, 18, from Victoria's Apollo Bay, breaks down as she is reunited with her mother Kate Thomas at Bangkok airport after arriving on an RAAF evacuation flight. Photo: Lindsay Murdoch
5784.txt:Pushed on a wheelchair through Bangkok airport, suffering frost-bitten feet,18-year-old Victorian Camille Thomas collapsed into the arms of her mother Kate Thomas.
5784.txt:Link Camille Thomas collapses into the arms of her mother Kate Thomas at Bangkok airport. Camille is suffering from frost bite on her feet. Photo: Lindsay Murdoch
5787.txt:They were bussed to the airport and ushered quickly onto the tarmac with the help of consular staff.
578.txt:Foreign Minister Datuk Seri Anifah Aman told reporters tonight that there was no access to enter Nepal as the Tribhuvan International airport in Kathmandu was closed for now.
578.txt:"Of course we will help Nepal that goes without saying. "When the airport is re-opened, we can go in," he said after the joint welcoming dinner for Asean foreign ministers which Deputy Prime Minister Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin attended.
5790.txt:PHOTO OP: Team departing Vancouver Airport with Physician Travel Packs tomorrow (Saturday, May 2, for time and place contact CMAT's Leslie Eltom)
5794.txt:In fact, Kathmandu’s airport was under strict control, and no one without a ticket was allowed to enter—compatriots without tickets would not even be allowed in, much less receive a free ride home.
5794.txt:On April 26, many Chinese tourists had to leave the airport and return to the city due to the high cost of airline tickets. Airline tickets regularly priced at 2,000 to 3,000 yuan (US$322 to US$483) were reportedly raised to as high as 7,000 to 10,000 yuan (US$1,128 to $1,612).
5794.txt:“The Communist regime says one thing and does another. The CCTV said aid craft will be sent forth. But, there are none. I can see that at least 500 Chinese are stranded at the airport now. … Some were also wounded. Nepal has provided us with tents, we have received nothing from the Chinese Embassy. There are dozens of Chinese waiting in the Nepal vice president’s residence. There are no blankets, tents, water, or food.”
5794.txt:“On hearing news of the earthquake in Nepal, India immediately notified their own people in Nepal to go to the airport and get on the free flight with their passports. I really envy them, because their country’s military aircraft have flown four times today to fly them home. But our own aircraft paid with our own money are still nowhere to be found.”
5794.txt:Sharon-Xixi also wrote, “The Embassy is filled with dead weight. They know of no emergency measures, rescue, and support, or sympathy. We were not allowed to enter the Embassy. We had to walk alone to the airport. This is how the Chinese treat their compatriots.”
579.txt:The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country's only international airport which was briefly closed.
579.txt:People stand on the runway outside the International Terminal after a earthquake hit, at Tribhuvan International Airport, Kathmandu, Nepal, April 25, 2015, in this handout courtesy of Dhany Osman. The massive earthquake measuring 7.9 magnitude struck 80 km (50 miles) east of Pokhara in Nepal on Saturday, causing some buildings in the capital Kathmandu to collapse, witnesses said. (REUTERS)
579.txt:People stand on the runway outside the International Terminal after a earthquake hit, at Tribhuvan International Airport, Kathmandu, Nepal, April 25, 2015, in this handout courtesy of Dhany Osman. The massive earthquake measuring 7.9 magnitude struck 80 km (50 miles) east of Pokhara in Nepal on Saturday, causing some buildings in the capital Kathmandu to collapse, witnesses said. (REUTERS)
5808.txt:But a sobering headline in Kantipur Times reproduced in TelegraphNepal.com—’There is more myth to India’s support than reality’—voiced a muted but growing disquiet. The report quoted officials at the Tribhuvan International Airport as saying, “More than one thousand Indian armymen have landed in Nepal. Some one hundred armymen have also come through the land route in five trucks and four Bolero jeeps. Who is going to ask them how many of them are there?”
5808.txt:Another report in Hindustan Times quoted Brigadier General P.S. Bogati of Nepal army complaining, “The Indian air force does not share its sortie schedules with the Nepalese army and takes hell of a time on the ground in an already congested airport.” While the general cribbed about an IL-76 aircraft taking eight hours to unload 28 tonnes of drinking water, defence secretary R.K. Mathur in New Delhi complained that two C-17 Globemaster III planes circled over Kathmandu for three hours before returning to India. “We can’t keep wasting flying hours like this,” he was quoted as saying.
5816.txt:A 260-person strong Israeli military search and rescue crew is in Nepal to help locate survivors in the rubble and has set up a medical field hospital for locals. The small international airport has reopened, but it’s chaotic: Thousands of other foreign tourists, are still trying to figure out how to get out of the country – even as international aid organizations and expat Nepalis desperate to return home are trying to get in.
5816.txt:An estimated 50,000 young Israelis depart from Ben-Gurion Airport every year and head out on their “big trip” to far-off lands. Through Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam, India and Nepal they traipse – typically as one big happy family of faded army unit T-shirts.
5816.txt:Israel had long become a second home to him. “From my first day at the airport, I felt welcome,” he recalls. “Being a country of immigrants, Israelis are used to interacting with people from all over the world, many of whom don’t speak Hebrew. People would sometimes ask me, ‘Where are you from, Yemen?’ I would say, ‘No, I’m from Nepal.’ And they would say ‘Sababa, [great], want to come to our seder?’”
5816.txt:“I wanted to be part of an Israeli organization, because I like the can-do style and I like the way they give you real responsibilities,” says Dorit Stein, 23, a volunteer from San Diego. She says the first indication that she had made the right choice came with the Tevel email about arrival arrangements in Nepal. “It said something like, ‘Arrive in Kathmandu, go to the tourist area and ask around for where we are,’” recalls Stein. “An American program would be like, ‘Send us your exact flight details. We will be standing by the information desk at the airport with a sign at 10:15 A.M.’ But we can handle the Israeli way.”
5834.txt:Israeli officials were angered by the fact that the India Foreign Ministry failed to send a representative to the airport, as is the customary practice for a visiting head of state, when the Presidential plane landed in New Delhi. Instead of being invited to make himself comfortable in the airport’s lounge for VIP’s, President Shazar had been totally ignored by the Indian officials when he was on the way to Katmandu.
5836.txt:Jane Gan Siew Fern, 27, and June Gan Siew Mei, 26, who could not be traced earlier, took an Airasia X flight D7 193 and arrived at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport 2 at 10.27pm.
5837.txt:At Pokhara airport in the Himalayas, Indian soldiers race back and forth loading rice, blankets, tarpaulins and other aid onto waiting helicopters for delivery to quake-devastated villages.
5840.txt:Tamrakar, the guide, managed to contact the tour company's Indian office and work on ways to get everyone home. It turned out the group had three options: drive to Kathmandu, a journey that usually takes five hours but which officials warned would take 12; drive five hours into India, which had waived visa restrictions in the wake of the disaster, and catch a flight to Delhi and then home; or try to catch a short flight to Kathmandu, in hopes of getting to the airport in time for the commercial flight home they had originally booked.
5840.txt:Giesbrecht and his friends opted to stay at the airport until their flight eight hours later. "We just wanted to be not a burden, to just stay out of the way."
5843.txt:In addition, the U.S. military is "preparing to assist with airfield and logistics operations at Kathmandu's airport" to expedite cargo off-loading operations, Rathke said.
584.txt:(JNS.org) As an earthquake measuring 7.9 on the Richter scale continues to claim victims in Nepal—3,600 deaths as of Monday—a 260-member Israeli rescue team headed for Nepal to assist local authorities. The Israeli mission was delayed by 12 hours due to earthquake damage at the airport in Nepal’s capital of Kathmandu.
5850.txt:Yet getting more aid in through Kathmandu’s small international airport is expected to be a challenge, with UN agencies reporting that a number of aid flights have been delayed or turned back due to congestion.
5850.txt:IFRC expects its first two planeloads of fresh aid to arrive at the airport Friday, with stocks to serve 1,000 people and a 60-bed rapid deployment emergency hospital, but warned far more was needed.
5857.txt:He said: 'The humanitarian impact here is enormous, with many deceased in the streets when we arrived, limited power supply and water in the city running very low. Aid is arriving steadily, with the limitation of Kathmandu airport having a very small apron space.
5857.txt:Rescued: Nepal military personnel carry an earthquake survivor on a stretcher after he arrives by helicopter from his village in Pokkara airport
5857.txt:DEC chief executive Saleh Saeed said: 'Getting the huge amount of essential supplies needed to the hundreds of thousands of people whose homes have been damaged or destroyed quickly is a huge logistical challenge which is being hampered by the limited capacity of the one main airport and extremely difficult terrain in the areas affected.
5862.txt:A disaster response team from DHL has also been deployed to Nepal to provide logistics support at Tribhuvan Kathmandu International Airport.
5862.txt:“Our team comprises highly trained volunteers, who provide logistical expertise to help co-ordinate the relief aid at the airport for further distribution to the victims in the speediest manner possible,” said DHL Group chief executive Frank Appel.
5864.txt:The delay was not related to capacity at the airport in Kathmandu, said Marine Capt. Cassandra Gesecki, a spokeswoman for Brig. Gen. Paul Kennedy, 3rd Marine Expeditionary Brigade commander, who arrived Wednesday in the Nepalese capital with an advance party of Pacific Command troops. A wide variety of factors contributed to the delay, with aircraft, personnel and equipment coming from Japan, Guam, Thailand and the Philippines, she said.
5864.txt:The Ospreys and Huey helicopters will be tasked with ferrying relief supplies and personnel from the international airport in Kathmandu to outlying areas, Kennedy said.
5871.txt:As dozens of British survivors from the quake returned home to their loved ones in emotional scenes at London’s Stansted Airport, some 200 Gurkhas marched in the city centre and prayed for Nepal.
5878.txt:Bureaucracy at Kathmandu airport was holding up vital relief supplies for survivors of the earthquake in Nepal on Saturday as the death toll from the disaster passed 6,600.
5878.txt:Material was piling up at the Kathmandu airport instead of being ferried out to victims, McGoldrick told Reuters.
5885.txt:Tim Costello, international aid is pouring into Kathmandu airport, but by all accounts, it's not reaching remote areas quickly enough. Is that right?
5885.txt:TIM COSTELLO, CEO, WORLD VISION AUSTRALIA: That's absolutely right. And when you say "pouring in", there's only - I think it's seven or nine parking bays for large aircraft at Kathmandu airport. No - it's landlocked, so unlike Haiti, you can't bring them in by sea. And then once here, getting it out - and we've been out near the epicentre, Gorkha, and driving our material, then walking with the rest, it is really hard to get out. There are still so many villagers, desperate people, six days on, rightly angry, saying, "Where is the aid?"
5886.txt:Katmandu’s international airport is crammed with relief supplies sent from around the world. But rugged terrain, a lack of paved roads and weak government institutions have hampered the distribution of aid to some of the worst affected areas, where traditional mud and brick houses lie in ruins and families are sleeping under plastic sheets or under the open sky.
5886.txt:Prime Minister Sushil Koirala toured the airport on Friday and called for aid delivery to speed up. But officials and international relief officials in Gorkha said they were limited by a lack of helicopters to deliver the supplies and were still gathering information about the affected areas.
5892.txt:POKHARA: At Pokhara airport in the Himalayas, Indian soldiers race back and forth loading rice, blankets, tarpaulins and other aid onto waiting helicopters for delivery to Nepal's quake-devastated villages.
5892.txt:At Pokhara airport, Indian Wing Commander Suraj Shankar was oblivious to any jostle for influence as he talked of his troops' efforts.
5894.txt:The amount of emergency aid needed for such a large-scale disaster outstripped the capacity of Kathmandu's small international airport, which was receiving an extremely high volume of aid flights now coming into Nepal, Mr Chapagain said.
5894.txt:"Aid is coming in, but the airport is very busy and clearance of relief items is taking time. With the arrival of more and more aid organisations, prices are skyrocketing and there is rapidly expanding competition for transport and relief goods," Fr Pius Perumana SJ, director of Caritas Nepal, said.
5916.txt:(MENAFN - Kuwait News Agency (KUNA)) The US Agency for International Development (USAID) is contributing an additional USD 2.5 million to the UN World Food Program to help the estimated 1.4 million people in Nepal that will require food assistance over the next three months, indicated State Department Acting Spokesperson Marie Harf on Thursday."The funding will be used to purchase 1,390 metric tons of rice, which is expected to help 120,000 people for one month. Total US humanitarian funding for the Nepal earthquake response now stands at USD 12.5 million," she told reporters.The US military remains near the Lukla Airport in the Everest region to help provide medical care and ensure evacuation of trekkers from the region."We can confirm that a US embassy privately contracted helicopter with both US Military service members and a consular officer on board rescued three US citizens, as well as 19 citizens from other countries from the Langtang region yesterday," she added.Harf also highlighted reports that several groups of US citizens were rescued by the Nepali army throughout the country to which the US expressed gratitude.Finally, she recognized the coordination between a USAID team and Nepali officials in the rescue of a 15-year old boy saved from the rubble in North Kathmandu. (end) ak.sd
5919.txt:DEC chief executive Saleh Saeed said: “Getting the huge amount of essential supplies needed to the hundreds of thousands of people whose homes have been damaged or destroyed quickly is a huge logistical challenge which is being hampered by the limited capacity of the one main airport and extremely difficult terrain in the areas affected.
5923.txt:One of the chief difficulties with disaster response in Nepal is that, beyond the geographic challenges of an extremely mountainous region, so much of the country is focuses intensely on Kathmandu. The sole international airport is in the capital, as are virtually all offices and bases for international non-governmental organizations (NGOs). The only group that has unfettered access to transportation to and from rural areas is the military, with the Indian Army leading efforts, but bureaucracy and red tape have made accessing some of that transport difficult.
5924.txt:In Pokhara, Mota thinks such grassroots organizations, ones that are already on the ground, are best-equipped to get help to those who most need it. She is partial to Doctors Without Borders and KarmaFlights, the charity run by professional paragliding pilots driving relief efforts in Gorkha. Their work contrasts with the cumbersome efforts of more bureaucratic agencies. “People are frustrated over the government’s slow or even seemingly non-existing reaction to the disaster and the chaos at the airport in Kathmandu, hindering foreign aid from arriving to the country, or allowing the supplies to sit at the airport for a long time.”
5929.txt:The U.S. military would help manage the growing piles of relief supplies clogging Nepal`s only international airport, which has struggled to distribute all the aid arriving from around the world since the earthquake.
5929.txt:Kennedy did not say how extensive the U.S. presence in Nepal would grow after the initial arrival of four vertical take-off Osprey aircraft, two Bell Hueys and equipment such as forklift trucks to help move relief supplies at the airport.
5929.txt:Teams of soldiers carrying portable radars and including airstrip repair experts, will be sent to enable two provincial airports to receive heavy transport flights day and night.
5929.txt:The airports being considered to relieve the pressure on the international airport include one at trekking destination Pokhara and another near the birthplace of Buddha.
5929.txt:The U.S. military would help manage the growing piles of relief supplies clogging Nepal`s only international airport, which has struggled to distribute all the aid arriving from around the world since the earthquake.
5929.txt:Kennedy did not say how extensive the U.S. presence in Nepal would grow after the initial arrival of four vertical take-off Osprey aircraft, two Bell Hueys and equipment such as forklift trucks to help move relief supplies at the airport.
5929.txt:Teams of soldiers carrying portable radars and including airstrip repair experts, will be sent to enable two provincial airports to receive heavy transport flights day and night.
5929.txt:The airports being considered to relieve the pressure on the international airport include one at trekking destination Pokhara and another near the birthplace of Buddha.
5929.txt:He said the United States would not be involved in air-traffic operations at Kathmandu airport, which would raise questions of sovereignty.
5929.txt:airport, which would raise questions of sovereignty.
5937.txt:National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Foreign Secretary S Jaishankar called on Prime Minister Sushil Koirala soon after their arrival here to discuss the rescue and relief operations in the areas affected by the earthquake.Tremors jolted Nepal for the sixth day today as rescuers struggled with disposing off dead bodies and sifting through mounds of rubble for rare survivors after hopes of finding them were rekindled following the miraculous rescue of a teenage boy and a young woman yesterday.International humanitarian bodies called for greater urgency in relief efforts as the death toll from Saturday's devastating temblor topped 6,300 while the number of injured reached around 14,000."One of our teams that returned from Chautara in Sindupalchowk district reported that 90 per cent of the homes are destroyed. The hospital has collapsed, and people are digging through the rubble with their hands in the hope that they might find family members who are still alive," said Jagan Chapagain, Director of Asia Pacific with the IFRC."We can expect the situation to be the same if not worse in many other places where aid has not yet been delivered," Chapagain said.There are estimates that up to 40,000 homes in Sindupalchowk alone have been destroyed, the IFRC said in a statement.The amount of emergency aid needed for such a large-scale disaster outstrips the capacity of Kathmandu's small and the country's only international airport, which is receiving an extremely high volume of aid flights now coming into Nepal, it said.Meanwhile, relief was slowly beginning to reach remote mountainous towns and villages after efforts were earlier hampered due to heavy rains and aftershocks.According to the Home Ministry, 20 helicopters carrying relief have landed in the districts of Sindhupalchok, Dolakha, Rasuwa, Nuwakot, Dhading and Gorkha - some of the worst-hit areas.
5947.txt:One plane took off or landed every three minutes on Wednesday from Tribhuvan International Airport’s lone runway. The TIA handled a record 447 flight movements. On an average, 254 flights took off and landed at the airport daily last year.
5947.txt:TIA officials said that the airport handled 188 flight movements for domestic carriers, 88 scheduled international flights, 49 charters flights of humanitarian aid, 41 search and rescue flights of the Indian Air Force, with the rest from Nepali helicopter operators.
5947.txt:TIA statistics showed that there were 393 flight movements on Tuesday. Due to the deadly earthquake, the airport saw the lowest flight movements—170—on Saturday.
5947.txt:There are, however, worries that such large aircraft could damage the runway at the country’s sole international airport, especially in the pre-monsoon season. A report submitted nearly a year ago by Ayesa Ingenieria of Spain, which had been contracted to evaluate TIA’s runway and taxiway, had revealed that the TIA runway is not capable of handling wide-body aircraft due to its ageing asphalt foundation. The runway’s upper surface comes instantly under stress when heavy jets land.
5959.txt:There was sloganeering at the airport and passengers heckled the Air Force and airline staff who were running the rescue sorties.
595.txt:The Thai humanitarian teams will be flying to the country closest to Nepal before proceeding into affected areas, as Nepal’s international airport has been temporarily closed as a result of the tremor, deputy government spokesman Sansern Kaewkamnerd said Sunday.
5960.txt:(ANSA) - New Delhi, May 1 - The emergency for Italian citizens in Nepal during the devastating 7.8-magnitude earthquake that hit the capital Kathmandu and its surrounding areas on April 25 is "practically over", Italian diplomatic sources in New Delhi told ANSA on Friday. Two groups of Italian nationals had been having difficulty getting out of the cities of Lukla and Dunchee. "Almost all of them have now arrived or are about to reach Kathmandu," said the source, Another group of Italians who were in Nepal at the time of the quake are expected to land at Pratica di Mare airport near Rome on Friday afternoon on board a military plane, the Italian foreign ministry said. The flight is also carrying some 30 EU citizens under a cooperation deal among crisis units from different countries intervening in Nepal's emergency. Four Italians have been confirmed dead in the earthquake that is feared to have killed as many as 10,000 people, and Italy's foreign ministry has sent civil protection and Red Cross units to help out in the disaster-struck country. Earlier on Friday, four Italians and a Spanish national were evacuated from Kathmandu with a helicopter through Italian ministry personnel on the ground. The bodies of two of the Italians who died in the quake - Oskar Piazza and Gigliola Mancinelli - were also transported to the Nepalese capital by helicopter. Seven other Italians made it to Kathmandu on their own and will be repatriated with crisis unit and embassy assistance.
5961.txt:1). To assess and provide assistance with airport operations as well as coordinating relief at the airport.
5964.txt:Claire Bennett, a long-time resident of Nepal, was away when the earthquake hit. She was torn between her desperation to get back to the country she loves and the realisation that she would be of very little use and more likely just to add to the congestion at the airport. This, she says, is a lesson for those wanting to help – leave it to those best qualified. Her key tips include: give money rather than donating goods; think about sustainability when donating; and if you really want to go and help, at least wait until there is space at the airport.
5980.txt:“Aid is coming in, but the airport is very busy and clearance of relief items is taking time. With the arrival of more and more aid organisations, prices are skyrocketing and there is rapidly expanding competition for transport and relief goods,” says Fr Pius Perumana SJ, Director of Caritas Nepal.
5983.txt:Jane Gan Siew Fern, 27, and June Gan Siew Mei, 26, who could not be traced earlier, took an Airasia X flight D7 193 and arrived at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport 2 at 10.27pm.
5989.txt:The task of opening up and managing key relief routes is going to be a huge hurdle. Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan international airport survived largely intact — that’s a great plus. But it has only one runway and limited tarmac space, not nearly large enough to accommodate a huge in-flux of cargo aircraft loaded with aid supplies and requesting clearance to land.
5997.txt:The pupils from St Mary's School touched down safely at OR Tambo International Airport this morning.
5999.txt:http://www.irinnews.org/report/101438/inside-the-logistics-hub-at-kathmandu-s-airport
5999.txt:Inside the logistics hub at Kathmandu's airport
5999.txt:Médecins sans Frontières’ new 54-bed hospital for Nepal weighs 35 tons and is currently in scores of boxes sitting in a giant tent – known as a mobile storage unit – in the humanitarian cargo area of Kathmandu airport.
5999.txt:Clearing the airport
5999.txt:The role of the staging area is not just to safely store supplies but to decongest the airport. The aim is to have humanitarian cargo move off the apron as quickly as possible and directly into WFP’s storage facility.
5999.txt:“The airport is overloaded. We don’t want to have flights coming in stopped. We can handle the congestion. It’s better to have it here,” Beaumont said.
5999.txt:“People just dump at the apron and go. Our role starts from the airport side to here, applying the skills from the commercial world to relief operations, to smooth the entire flow,” he added.
6010.txt:The Mount Everest south base camp in Nepal is seen a day after a huge earthquake-caused avalanche killed at least 17 people, in this photo courtesy of 6summitschallenge.com taken on April 26, 2015 and released on April 27, 2015. REUTERS/6summitschallenge.com A Nepalese boy talks on a mobile phone near a damaged minaret of a mosque in Kathmandu, Nepal, Tuesday, April 28, 2015. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri) Tourists from Vietnam access the Internet from their mobile phones while waiting for their flight at Tribhuvan International Airport after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar National Disaster Response Force from Indian paramilitary force works to recover the dead bodies from a collapsed house after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar Tourists stand in front of the Departure gate of Tribhuvan International Airport as they wait for their flight after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar An Indian woman cries as she waits to take a flight back to her country after an earthquake at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar A girl cries as her family takes refuge at Tribhuvan International Airport after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar Tourists wait to board their flights at Tribhuvan International Airport after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar Tourists wait to board their flights at Tribhuvan International Airport after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar A tourist from the Netherlands waiting for her flight sleeps in a sleeping bag at Tribhuvan International Airport after returning from the Everest Base in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar An Australian tourist reads a book as she waits for her flight at Tribhuvan International Airport after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar People sleep on the ground in an open area on early morning after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Adnan Abidi An earthquake victim carries her baby on her back as she stands outside her makeshift shelter on open ground in the early hours in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Adnan Abidi A man prays next to rubble of a temple, destroyed in Saturday's earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Adnan Abidi A prayer bell is seen on top of the rubble of a damaged temple after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Adnan Abidi Royal Thai Air Force personnel load food and relief supplies for Nepal at the military airport in Bangkok, Thailand, April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Chaiwat Subprasom Thai Armed Forces medical team walk to a C-130 cargo plane at the military airport in Bangkok, Thailand, April 28, 2015. The Royal Thai Armed Forces sent 67 medical and rescue personnel to assist the earthquake victims in Nepal, according to The Royal Thai Armed Forces authorities. REUTERS/Chaiwat Subprasom Thai Armed Forces rescue team prepare to board a C-130 cargo plane at the military airport in Bangkok, Thailand, April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Chaiwat Subprasom People sleep inside a makeshift shelter on open ground, early morning after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Adnan Abidi In this April 27, 2015 photo, locals watch rescue teams try to remove the body of a 12-year-old girl from a collapsed home in Kathmandu, Nepal. A strong earthquake shook Nepal's capital and the densely populated Kathmandu Valley on Saturday. (AP Photo/Wally Santana) People sit on the rubble of a collapsed building following an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal in this Red Cross handout picture taken on April 27, 2015. REUTERS/IFRC/Palani Mohan/Handout via Reuters In this April 27, 2015 photo, rescue teams search for bodies in the collapsed Sitapyla church in Kathmandu, Nepal. A strong earthquake shook Nepal's capital and the densely populated Kathmandu Valley on Saturday. (AP Photo/Wally Santana) An earthquake victim carries her baby on her back as she stands outside her makeshift shelter on open ground in the early hours in Kathmandu, Nepal April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Adnan Abidi Tents are set up in an open area near multi-storey buildings following an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal in this Red Cross handout picture taken on April 27, 2015. REUTERS/IFRC/Palani Mohan/Handout via Reuters People gather on a road as traffic is affected by a landslide caused by an earthquake, in Kurintar, Nepal April 27, 2015. REUTERS/Athit Perawongmetha The Mount Everest south base camp in Nepal is seen a day after a huge earthquake-caused avalanche killed at least 17 people, in this photo courtesy of 6summitschallenge.com taken on April 26, 2015 and released on April 27, 2015. REUTERS/6summitschallenge.com Video taken from a drone Saturday April 25 2015 shows devastation in the Nepalese capital Kathmandu, caused by Saturday's quake that measured 7.8 on the Richter Scale. (AP Photo / KISHNOR RANA) Nepalese carry the body of their relative killed in the recent earthquake for cremation at the Pashupatinath temple, on the banks of Bagmati river, in Kathmandu, Nepal, Monday, April 27, 2015. (AP Photo / Manish Swarup) Nepalese people affected by the recent earthquake queue to receive food from a non governmental organization, in Kathmandu, Nepal, Monday, April 27, 2015. (AP Photo / Manish Swarup) Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded man on a makeshift stretcher to a waiting Indian air force helicopter as they evacuate victims of Saturdays earthquake from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal, Monday, April 27, 2015. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri)
6010.txt:Some areas believed to have been badly affected by the quake are now going into their sixth day without outside assistance. Meanwhile, the UN is warning that the airport at Kathmandu is “swamped” with aid containers full of food, medicines and tents, and increased pressure on the Nepal government to act. *To donate to help Goal's work in Nepal please visit www.goalglobal.org
6012.txt:"The international airport was a mess at the best of times. Now it's simply not working. People can't get out and aid can't get in. So you might have everyone wanting to help but right now they don't have the capacity to accept, store or distribute that help effectively. I can see the situation in Nepal getting more and more desperate regardless of how much aid is on offer."
6013.txt:Myers says he has a flight to India May 4 from Kathmandu, less than 50 miles from the quake’s epicenter, and is concerned about the state of the airport. He says there are thousands of people lined up at the airport waiting to leave the country. Myers says those who have tickets are given priority to leave the country, so he is confident he will be able to leave without any problems. However, he says he expects to endure a lot of confusion when the time comes for him to depart.
6014.txt:Relief aid group Oxfam says congestion at Kathmandu airport, blocked roads, fuel shortages and difficult terrain are slowing down the pace of aid delivery.
6017.txt:He said that international aid has not reached the affected people. Huge aid pouring in from international community has been accumulating at Tribhuvan International Airport but aid agencies are not effectively distributing them to the victims.
6028.txt:Australians at the airport told The Daily Telegraph they would attempt to return to Nepal to offer assistance after their harrowing experiences.
6028.txt:media_camera Survivor ... Alice Forrest from Manly arrives at Kathmandu International airport to board an Australian Defence Force C17 aircraft to Bangkok. Picture: Nathan Edwards
6028.txt:The mother and daughter — who intend to continue travelling through Asia before returning to Australia — had a flight out of Nepal scheduled for Sunday but had to postpone following the aftershocks and heavy delays at the airport.
6028.txt:media_camera Lucky escape ... Toni Perry from Surry Hills leaves Kathmandu International airport to board an Australian Defence Force C17 aircraft to Bangkok. Picture: Nathan Edwards
6033.txt:18/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese girl injured in the earthquake holds the hand of her mother inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
6033.txt:19/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese victims of the earthquake lie inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
6033.txt:24/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded man on a makeshift stretcher to a waiting Indian air force helicopter as they evacuate victims of the earthquake from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
6033.txt:25/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person carries a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance after the child and mother were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu
6033.txt:26/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person walks carrying a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance as the mother follows after they were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu
6035.txt:"We're sending a small quantity first as the airport is clogged and chaotic now. We don't want the tents to be stuck on the runway," Mr Pant said.
6036.txt:But deployment has been a muddle. Some teams took three days to land due to the congestion at Kathmandu’s small airport – the delay effectively ending their utility as rescuers.
6036.txt:Out of 61 teams registered on arrival at the airport, only 16 were approved by the UN International Search and Rescue Advisory Group, the global standard-setting body, and not all of those have attended the daily coordination meetings run by Orr and Stam in the UNDAC tent in a field next to the airport runway.
6041.txt:Jane Gan Siew Fern, 27, and June Gan Siew Mei, 26, who could not be traced earlier, took an Airasia X flight D7 193 and arrived at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport 2 at 10.27pm.
6056.txt:For those of you who have not been here, or who may have only been in Kathmandu, the road that connects Kathmandu to the world goes through a mountain valley. It's extremely curvy - a four hour rollercoaster ride. There is a cliff on the inside edge, and a precipice on the outside. We are lucky that it seems to have been undamaged. This road usually brings all the cargo that goes in and out - just about all the food comes into the Valley. Much attention is paid to the airport, but there is no way the airport can handle the amount of cargo that's needed here.
6057.txt:Some are still being used in and around Mount Everest and are stationed at Lukla airport, the aerial gateway to the region.
6058.txt:On May 1, the plane carrying 13 Azerbaijani nationals and four Georgian nationals, landed at the Heydar Aliyev International Airport in Baku.
6070.txt:The international airport in Kathmandu has been overwhelmed by both the arrival of emergency crews and the number of travelers attempting to leave. Travelers have waited days for available flights out of the small airport, which has seen daily flights nearly double since the disaster.
6080.txt:Australians at the airport told The Daily Telegraph they would attempt to return to Nepal to offer assistance after their harrowing experiences.
6080.txt:media_camera Survivor ... Alice Forrest from Manly arrives at Kathmandu International airport to board an Australian Defence Force C17 aircraft to Bangkok. Picture: Nathan Edwards
6080.txt:The mother and daughter — who intend to continue travelling through Asia before returning to Australia — had a flight out of Nepal scheduled for Sunday but had to postpone following the aftershocks and heavy delays at the airport.
6080.txt:media_camera Lucky escape ... Toni Perry from Surry Hills leaves Kathmandu International airport to board an Australian Defence Force C17 aircraft to Bangkok. Picture: Nathan Edwards
6083.txt:•a £5 million package to provide a further team of trauma medics, humanitarian experts and airfield handling equipment to ease congestion at Kathmandu airport.
6084.txt:We were evacuated on a PAF C-130 that brought aid from Pakistan. The Khatmandu airport was teeming with people trying to leave the country and aid workers arriving from abroad. We got to the airport at around 9am and waited for hours before the plane took-off.
6086.txt:"At 08:00 p.m. Moscow time [16:00 GMT] An-148 jet aircraft flew from the Ramenskoye Airport near Moscow to evacuate 40 Russian citizens from Nepal," the spokesperson stated.
6089.txt:The 26 students and four teachers from St Margaret's College have touched down in New Zealand tonight. They were met by parents and executive principal Gilliam Simpson at Christchurch Airport.
6089.txt:The groups was forced to fly via Guangzhou in China after their flight out of Kathmandu Airport was delayed due to aid taking priority.
6090.txt:"The international airport was a mess at the best of times. Now it's simply not working. People can't get out and aid can't get in. So you might have everyone wanting to help but right now they don't have the capacity to accept, store or distribute that help effectively. I can see the situation in Nepal getting more and more desperate regardless of how much aid is on offer."
6094.txt:A Durban senior public prosecutor who survived Saturday’s earthquake in Nepal was reunited with her family at King Shaka International Airport on Thursday night.
6094.txt:Bhogal joined a group of trekkers from India who had organised a private evacuation to the airport at Lukla.
6094.txt:“When I left Tribhuvan International Airport, there were hundreds of buses arriving at the airport, people were camping outside, and most of the commercial areas were not operational.
6094.txt:Her husband, Abhi Bhogal, son Rtyu and daughter Aryaa, and about 15 family members were at the airport in Durban to welcome her home on Thursday.
6105.txt:Meanwhile, disruptions at the nearby international airport delayed their Air India flight out of the country for a day. “We all cheered when we finally boarded our plane and they shut the door,” he said.
610.txt:Substantial logistical hurdles remain, but there were hopeful signs as Kathmandu’s international airport reopened after Saturday’s crushing earthquake, and some aid vehicles were able to travel overland from India to the stricken Nepalese city of Pokhara.
610.txt:“That means supplies could potentially come in overland from India. That is a positive sign,” said Ben Pickering, Save the Children’s humanitarian adviser in Britain. “The airport opening is a small miracle.”
610.txt:He cautioned that chaotic conditions may create a bottleneck at the airport as governments and aid agencies try to bring in personnel and supplies in the coming days.
610.txt:Volunteers from various British charities gathered at London’s Heathrow Airport getting ready for overnight flights to the Nepal region.
6111.txt:Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport, the main entry point for flights bringing in aid, was briefly closed again Tuesday as a precaution but reopened after a couple of hours.
6116.txt:Jonathon Clearwater, who lives in Okarito on the West Coast, was passing through airport customs when a massive earthquake hit Nepal on April 25.
612.txt:Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese police officers clear debris from Durbar Square in Kathmandu on Sunday, May 3. A magnitude-7.8 earthquake centered less than 50 miles from Kathmandu rocked Nepal with devastating force Saturday, April 25. The earthquake and its aftershocks have turned one of the world's most scenic regions into a panorama of devastation, killing and injuring thousands. Hide Caption 1 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured Nepalese woman is carried by villagers toward an Indian army helicopter to be airlifted from Philim village in Gorkha district in Nepal on May 3. Hide Caption 2 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Members of the Tsayana family warm themselves next to a fire outside their damaged house on May 3 in Bhaktapur, Nepal. Hide Caption 3 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A woman receives comfort during the funeral of her mother, a victim of Nepal's deadly earthquake, on Friday, May 1, in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 4 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Hindu priests perform rituals during the cremations of victims at the Pashupatinath Temple on the banks of the Bagmati River in Kathmandu on May 1. Hide Caption 5 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People await aid from an Indian army helicopter in front of damaged homes in Kulgaun, Nepal, on May 1. Hide Caption 6 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured woman gets carried on a stretcher at Kathmandu's airport after being evacuated from Melamchi, Nepal, on May 1. Hide Caption 7 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A member of the Los Angeles County Fire Department guides his sniffing dog through a collapsed building in Kathmandu on Thursday, April 30. Hide Caption 8 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A teenage boy gets rushed to a hospital April 30 after being rescued from the debris of a building in Kathmandu days after the earthquake. Hide Caption 9 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A man is freed from the ruins of a hotel by French rescuers in the Gangabu area of Kathmandu on Tuesday, April 28. Reuters identified the man as Rishi Khanal. Hide Caption 10 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese military police search through rubble outside Kathmandu on April 28. Hide Caption 11 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People rest April 28 in a temporary housing camp in Kathmandu. Large encampments of tents have sprung up in open areas, including a wide space belonging to the military in the center of the capital. Hide Caption 12 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A family collects belongings from their home in Bhaktapur, Nepal, on Monday, April 27. Hide Caption 13 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Damaged buildings lean to the side in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 14 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Hide Caption 15 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Members of the Nepalese army retrieve bodies from a collapsed building in Bhaktapur near Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 16 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded woman to a helicopter as they evacuate people from Trishuli Bazar, Nepal, on April 27. Hide Caption 17 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People charge their cell phones in an open area in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 18 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Emergency personnel evacuate an injured man to a waiting helicopter in Trishuli Bazar on April 27. Hide Caption 19 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An aerial view of the devastation in Kathmandu on April 27. The destruction in Nepal's capital is stark: revered temples reduced to rubble, people buried in the wreckage of their homes, hospitals short on medical supplies overflowing with patients. Hide Caption 20 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Residents rescue items from the debris of houses damaged in the quake in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 21 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An aervial view shows ruined buildings in Trishuli Bazar on April 27. Hide Caption 22 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A woman prays at a ruined temple in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 23 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People rest in temporary shelters in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 24 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Residents cycle over damaged roads on the outskirts of Kathmandu on Sunday, April 26. Hide Caption 25 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Four-month-old Sonit Awal is held up by Nepalese army soldiers after being rescued from the rubble of his house in Bhaktapur, Nepal, on April 26. Hide Caption 26 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The newspaper that provided photographs of the baby's rescue says the Nepalese army initially left the site, thinking the baby had not survived. Hours later when the infant's cries were heard, soldiers came back and rescued him. Hide Caption 27 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The newspaper adds the Nepalese Army had initially failed to rescue the baby and left the site thinking the baby had not survived. Hours later when the baby's cries were heard the army came back and rescued him. Hide Caption 28 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A woman cries after identifying the body of a relative in Bhaktapur on April 26. Hide Caption 29 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Men clear debris in Bhaktapur on April 26. Hide Caption 30 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A truck evacuates residents from Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 31 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A Buddha statue is surrounded by debris on April 26 from a collapsed temple in the UNESCO world heritage site of Bhaktapur. Hide Caption 32 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An elderly woman is helped to her home after being treated for her injuries in Bhaktapur on April 26. Hide Caption 33 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Family members break down on April 26 during the cremation of a loved one killed in Bhaktapur. Hide Caption 34 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Smoke from funeral pyres fills the air at the Pashupatinath temple on the banks of Bagmati River in Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 35 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Members of India's National Disaster Response Force look for survivors in Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 36 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescue workers remove debris on April 26 as they search for victims in Bhaktapur. Hide Caption 37 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People look at the debris of one of the oldest temples in Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 38 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People sleep on a street in Kathmandu, Nepal, on Saturday, April 25. A seemingly endless series of aftershocks continued to roil the area, further traumatizing survivors. Hide Caption 39 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Civilian rescuers carry a person on a stretcher in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 40 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People try to free a man from the rubble in Kathmandu on April 25. Cheers rose from the piles when people were found alive -- but mostly bodies turned up. Hide Caption 41 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Pedestrians walk past collapsed buildings in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 42 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Azim Afif, of the Universiti Teknologi Malaysia climbing team, provided this photo of their Mount Everest base camp after it was ravaged by an avalanche triggered by the earthquake on April 25. All of Afif's five-member team survived. Hide Caption 43 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescuers clear rubble in Kathmandu's Basantapur Durbar Square on April 25. Hide Caption 44 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A temple on Hanumandhoka Durbar Square lies in ruins after an earthquake in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 45 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Dharahara, a tower dating back to 1832 that rose more than 60 meters (200 feet) and provided breathtaking views of Kathmandu and the surrounding Himalayas, collapsed in the earthquake on April 25. Hide Caption 46 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The hand of a statue is seen under debris in Basantapur Durbar Square in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 47 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese man and woman hold each other in Kathmandu's Basantapur Durbar Square on April 25. Hide Caption 48 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A victim of Nepal's earthquake lies in the debris of Dharahara after it collapsed on April 25 in Kathmandu, Nepal. Hide Caption 49 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescuers look for victims under a collapsed building in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 50 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Volunteers carry a body recovered from the debris of a collapsed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 51 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A victim's body is seen in the debris of the collapsed Dharahara on April 25. Hide Caption 52 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Emergency rescue workers carry a victim from Dharahara after the tower in Kathmandu collapsed on April 25. Hide Caption 53 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People free a man from the rubble of a destroyed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 54 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A man walks past a collapsed temple at Basantapur Durbar Square. Hide Caption 55 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescue workers clear debris in Kathmandu while searching for survivors. Hide Caption 56 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People huddle together outside a hospital in Kathmandu. Eyewitnesses said residents were scared and waiting for aftershocks to end. Hide Caption 57 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People search for survivors stuck under the rubble of a destroyed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 58 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Injured people receive treatment in Kathmandu. A CNN reporter said medics were focused on treating the most severely injured. Hide Caption 59 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Emergency rescue workers search for survivors in the debris of Dharahara on April 25. Hide Caption 60 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured child lies on the ground outside a hospital in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 61 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People help with rescue efforts at the site of a collapsed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 62 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured child receives treatment outside Medicare Hospital in Kathmandu on April 25. Residents, after a relentless series of aftershocks, have been remaining outdoors. Hide Caption 63 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The rubble of collapsed walls fills a street in Lalitpur, on the outskirts of Kathmandu, on April 25. Hide Caption 64 of 64
612.txt:A team of 260 emergency responders was about an hour away from departure at Israel's Ben Gurion Airport when an aftershock in Kathmandu delayed its departure.
6146.txt:And then it was 1969 again, with Gravy and the Hog Farm family in an airport terminal. They were on the spot. A gaggle of reporters just informed them that they were actually the security force at Woodstock. "The world press was there, and they said, 'What are you going to do for crowd control?' We said cream pies and seltzer bottles — and they all wrote it down." Gravy's eyes widened. Chuckling, he leaned in and revealed, "That's how I learned to manipulate the media."
6152.txt:Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport, the main entry point for flights bringing in aid, was briefly closed again on Tuesday as a precaution.
6156.txt:It last came into contact with Kathmandu airport at 3 p.m.
6157.txt:While foreign aid commitments are increasing in the wake of the second earthquake, relief and recovery efforts continue to move slowly due to logistical challenges, including damaged roads, collapsed bridges, a lack of airport access, reduced capacity at hospitals, and chaotic conditions.
6160.txt:We now officially know that Kathmandu airport has closed.
6160.txt:"The airport is closed for operations right now," Birendra Prasad Shrestha, manager at Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport, told AFP.
6160.txt:Jet Airways flight #9W266 to Kathmandu is diverting to Lucknow because of Kathmandu Airport closure. pic.twitter.com/bvRxMBIG59 — Flightradar24 (@flightradar24) May 12, 2015
6160.txt:Kathmandu Airport has reportedly closed.
6160.txt:#Kathmandu Airport closed now because of #EarthquakeAgain ,flights waiting for green signal from the KTM ATC, pic.twitter.com/k2tYzJpsir — Mumbai (@InfoMumbai) May 12, 2015
6172.txt:A high magnitude earthquake struck about 82 Kms east of Kathmandu in Kodari region at 1235h on 12 May 15. The Indian Army continued to provide aid to affected population and areas in close coordination and cooperation with the Nepal Army.The ALHs have intensified operations post the earthquake yesterday and conducted 19 sorties, evacuated 44 persons, moved 04 Nepal Army troops and delivered 8.08 tons of relief material to inaccessible areas. The Indian Army Field Hospital at Senamangal and its medical teams continue to be deployed and has treated 44 patients including conducting of 11 surgeries. A medical team with four doctors and allied staff was also dispatched to Charikot by MI 17 Helicopter to extend medical aid after yesterdays earthquake. Two Medical teams are located at the Kathmandu Airport and are coordinating with the Nepal Army medical authorities to provide medical aid.The ETFs are involved in clearance of collapsed buildings. They have cleared debris from the school along with Nepal Army and 10 meters of lane in Suryamadhi, Mool Dhoka and Biyasi. The ETF at Bhaktapur was involved in the rescue of eight ladies who were trapped in the debris yesterday and also helped evacuate another 88 persons. Apart from this 42 tipper loads of debris was cleared at Bhaktapur apart from clearance of a total of 50 meter track and 170 cubic meter of debris. The Engineers have also helped in controlled demolition of one house at Barpak.Col Rohan Anand, SMPRO (Army)
6173.txt:The current plan is for her team to return home to Chicago on May 15, but with the Nepal airport still closed, Brander is unsure when they'll return home or when the people of Nepal can return to normalcy.
6177.txt:A joint search operation by the armies of Nepal and the US has been launched to trace the US Air Force UH-1Y Huey helicopter, which took off from the Tribhuvan International Airport (TIA) for Dolakha yesterday.
6179.txt:Kathmandu’s airport, the main entry point for flights bringing in aid, was briefly closed after Tuesday’s quake.
6180.txt:Everyone knew this earthquake—the first one at least—was coming. Many, though, are surprised that it didn’t exact a steeper toll. Before Tuesday’s 7.3-magnitude aftershock, the death count was around 8,000—a fraction of what many experts had predicted for such a massive event so near Kathmandu. That the quake happened during the day and not in winter or the monsoon season seems a small mercy. It also occurred on Saturday, a holy day when schools are closed. “I expected a much higher death toll and much higher destruction,” says Bill Berger, the USAID’s Disaster Assistance Response Team leader. Berger, who has lived in Nepal for 18 years and anticipated this quake for about that long, notes that many relief teams were actually well prepared, digging water wells in open spaces in Kathmandu in advance of the disaster and building a storage unit at the airport to avoid backlogs on the tarmac.
6184.txt:“We will continue to stay in the tent but it's wet here and the rain came into the tent, which we are sharing with 24 people. “Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport, the main entry point for flights bringing in aid, was briefly closed again Tuesday as a precaution but reopened after a couple of hours.
618.txt:http://www.foxnews.com/world/2015/04/26/no-time-to-lose-global-response-to-nepal-earthquake-gears-up-as-airport/
618.txt:No time to lose: Global response to Nepal earthquake gears up as airport, overland routes open
618.txt:Substantial logistical hurdles remain, but there were hopeful signs as Kathmandu's international airport reopened after Saturday's crushing earthquake, and some aid vehicles were able to travel overland from Indian to the stricken Nepalese city of Pokhara.
618.txt:"That means supplies could potentially come in overland from India. That is a positive sign," said Ben Pickering, Save the Children's humanitarian adviser in Britain. "The airport opening is a small miracle."
618.txt:He cautioned that chaotic conditions may create a bottleneck at the airport as governments and aid agencies try to bring in personnel and supplies in the coming days.
618.txt:Volunteers from various British charities gathered at London's Heathrow Airport getting ready for overnight flights to the Nepal region.
6192.txt:It last came into contact with Kathmandu airport at 3 p.m. The strong tremor, of 7.4 magnitude, according to US Geological Survey, occurred at 12.50 p.m. Tuesday. The number of those killed in its aftermath rose to 65. Over 1900 have been injured.
6194.txt:A joint search operation by the armies of Nepal and the US has been launched to trace the US Air Force UH-1Y Huey helicopter, which took off from the Tribhuvan International Airport (TIA) for Dolakha yesterday.
6214.txt:The RAF had planned to transport the helicopters to Kathmandu for reassembly, but they were diverted to India because of runway damage at Nepal's only international airport, according to The Times.
6217.txt:On April 25, a 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck Nepal, with its epicentre in Gorkha district, 200 kilometres northwest of the capital, Kathmandu. As of April 30, the government of Nepal reported 7,365 deaths and over 14,000 injured. More than 130,000 houses were destroyed and 85,856 houses damaged. The country’s only international airport in Kathmandu is heavily congested due to the arrival of numerous international organizations bringing in aid. Tremors were felt strongly in northern India, where to date a reported 72 people have been killed and 237 injured in the states of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. Casualties are expected to rise. In Tibet, the death toll currently stands at 17.
6217.txt:Logistical challenges, including congestion at Kathmandu airport and the fact that the majority of affected areas are inaccessible by road, have hampered MSF’s efforts to scale up activities quickly.
6217.txt:“Our priority is to reach people in places where no one else is going and who have not received assistance,” says Dr. Prince Mathew, who was one of the first MSF staff members to arrive in the country. “So it has been a huge challenge logistically to get the necessary supplies in through the congested airport, and secure the air transport we need to be able to provide medical assistance and deliver shelter and relief materials to the people in most urgent need.”
6217.txt:Initial briefing of the first MSF surgical team to arrive at the Kathmandu airport in Nepal.
6225.txt:He also confirmed the international airport in Nepal's capital of Kathmandu remains open and that all DoD personnel who are present in the region "have been accounted for and are safe."
6228.txt:A Nepalese person injured in Tuesday¿s earthquake brought from Charikot, Dolakha District lies on a stretcher at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, Wednesday, May 13, 2015. Thousands of fear-stricken people spent the night out in the open as a new earthquake killed dozens of people and spread more misery in Nepal, which is still struggling to recover from a devastating quake nearly three weeks ago. (AP Photo/Niranjan Shrestha)
6228.txt:A Nepalese woman injured in Tuesday¿s earthquake brought from Charikot, Dolakha District is taken to hospital at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, Wednesday, May 13, 2015. Thousands of fear-stricken people spent the night out in the open as a new earthquake killed dozens of people and spread more misery in Nepal, which is still struggling to recover from a devastating quake nearly three weeks ago. (AP Photo/Niranjan Shrestha)
6228.txt:A Nepalese person injured in Tuesday¿s earthquake brought from Charikot, Dolakha District lies on a stretcher at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, Wednesday, May 13, 2015. Thousands of fear-stricken people spent the night out in the open as a new earthquake killed dozens of people and spread more misery in Nepal, which is still struggling to recover from a devastating quake nearly three weeks ago. (AP Photo/Niranjan Shrestha)
6228.txt:A Nepalese woman injured in Tuesday¿s earthquake is comforted by her relative after she is brought from Charikot, Dolakha District at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, Wednesday, May 13, 2015. Thousands of fear-stricken people spent the night out in the open as a new earthquake killed dozens of people and spread more misery in Nepal, which is still struggling to recover from a devastating quake nearly three weeks ago. (AP Photo/Niranjan Shrestha)
6235.txt:18/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese girl injured in the earthquake holds the hand of her mother inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
6235.txt:19/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese victims of the earthquake lie inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
6235.txt:24/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded man on a makeshift stretcher to a waiting Indian air force helicopter as they evacuate victims of the earthquake from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
6235.txt:25/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person carries a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance after the child and mother were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu
6235.txt:26/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person walks carrying a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance as the mother follows after they were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu
6238.txt:There was not enough transport capability, especially helicopters, and there were serious bottlenecks at the airport. Major delays were caused by bureaucratic confusion and there was bitter mutual recrimination - both in public and private - over who was to blame and who should be in control of resources.
6240.txt:Kathmandu airport that was closed following the massive earthquake on Tuesday noon has reopened, according to local media
6240.txt:In addition, Kathmandu Airport has been shut down following today's earthquake as a precautionary measure.
6240.txt:"The airport is closed for operations right now," Birendra Prasad Shrestha, manager at Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport, told AFP.
6241.txt:The Guardian published an excellent article in the days after the first earthquake highlighting the writer’s concern that the aid response to Nepal does not mirror that of Haiti where ragtag teams rushed in, all with good intentions, but probably added to the need in the country that still exists five years later. The writer also noted that the airport and the flights coming in would currently be best utilised by urgent supplies and qualified relief workers, “essential travel”, not do-gooders or even visits from family that can wait.
6247.txt:Two MV-22Bs tilt-rotor Osprey aircraft were preparing to join the search, and additional MV-22 crews were on standby Thursday. A battalion-sized Nepalese ground force had also moved into the area to assist with the search. The 36th Contingency Response Group, also with JTF 505, is continuing to support civil aviation authorities offloading humanitarian aid at Kathmandu’s international airport, a JTF 505 statement said.
6249.txt:Dindu Tamang, 43, a lodge owner in Langtang, a northern Nepalese village close to the border, had been stranded in his village for 14 days after the 7.9-magnitude quake that struck on April 25, until Wednesday afternoon, when he, together with 14 fellow villagers, were airlifted to Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport.
6250.txt:"My contacts are telling me that the airport has reopened, so we should be fine getting in," Cain said. "I'm seeing pictures of injuries come in from the Kumari, so Tye will be ready to dive in with wound care.
6253.txt:NEW DELHI: Stung by Nepal's reaction to India's over-generous assistance in the immediate aftermath of the April 25 earthquake, this time India is playing it slightly cool with its smaller, prickly neighbour.On Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to his counterpart in Nepal Sushil Koirala, a conversation very different from the one that fateful Saturday​ two weeks ago​.​Yesterday's had the air of a ​caring but ​cool neighbour. "PM Sushil Koirala & I had a telephonic conversation. We reviewed the situation arising due to yesterday's tremors." said Modi in a tweet, before going on to promise assistance.On April 25, Modi's tweet had a very different tone. "Spoke to PM Sushil Koirala, who is in transit in Bangkok on his way to Kathmandu. Assured all support & assistance during this tough time." In fact, the PM was even quoted as saying that Koirala actually learned of the earthquake from his tweet. Within an hour, Modi had held a high level meeting to coordinate India's assistance to Nepal, thanked Morari Bapu for contributing Rs 51 lakh to Nepal and the first Indian planes were taking off within hours bound for Nepal. For the next few days Modi personally oversaw relief efforts and got his top officials - foreign, home and defence secretaries to brief the media every day.But this time, the MEA has played it cool. Apart from the occasional tweet about Indian efforts in Nepal, many more of which are coming from the defence ministry spokesperson, India has stayed quiet. The last time, Indian planes were accused by the Nepalese of hogging the runway in Kathmandu airport, forcing India to scout for other landing grounds in Pokhara, opening up land routes etc. There were days when Nepal refused to let Indian relief planes land and they had to return to India.Meanwhile, stories were rife about a geopolitical tussle over aid between India and China. Nepalese were quoted saying they felt "overwhelmed", while another set of voices began criticism of India's relief and rescue efforts.Then came a backlash from the Nepalese largely in Kathmandu and overseas on social media against the wall-to-wall coverage by Indian TV channels. Under normal circumstances, Indian media gets criticized in Nepal for its neglect. This time Nepalese appeared to be put off by what they called "insensitive" and "intrusive" coverage of the earthquake, in addition to accusing Indian channels of overplaying the Indian assistance there.Within 24 hours, Indian search and rescue teams, along with 34 others, were given marching orders from Nepal. The TV channels switched off their cameras. This time around, home minister Rajnath Singh said India would help if asked. This time there is no unsolicited assistance. It has been a signal learning curve for the Modi government and its neighbourhood-first policy.
6254.txt:Subsequently, the government waived import duties for all relief materials, though individuals and private companies still need to go through a long and frustrating process to get clearance. As a result, there is still a huge pile of much-needed materials napping at the airport.
6254.txt:Deciding that jumping through this particular hoop once was enough, the pilot has since decided to get around the huge bottleneck at Kathmandu Airport by arranging for the relief materials to be collected in India and trucking it to the southern Nepalese border town of Biratnagar. From there, private vehicles carry the cargo to Kathmandu and neighboring villages that were hardest hit by the initial temblor.
6255.txt:Nepal's only international airport, the Tribhuvan International Airport, was briefly closed by authorities and flights to Kathmandu were diverted.
6258.txt:Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport, the main entry point for flights bringing in aid, was briefly closed again yesterday as a precaution but reopened after a couple of hours.
6267.txt:The Tribhuvan International Airport closed shortly and flights to Kathmandu were diverted. Authorities also ordered closure of schools for two weeks and advised people to spend time in the open.
6272.txt:Amazingly this was not the first time Sir Brian had escaped death in Nepal. On his only other visit to the country he was due to be on a flight which crash landed at the notoriously dangerous Lukla Airport high in the mountains, killing everyone on board. His flight was only switched at the last minute.
6278.txt:Two MV-22Bs tilt-rotor Osprey aircraft were preparing to join the search, and additional MV-22 crews were on standby Thursday. A battalion-sized Nepalese ground force had also moved into the area to assist with the search. The 36th Contingency Response Group, also with JTF 505, is continuing to support civil aviation authorities offloading humanitarian aid at Kathmandu’s international airport, a JTF 505 statement said.
6281.txt:As far as the reconstruction is concerned, he said, infrastructure is very important and the building of road and airport as well as some sort of energy production are in priority.
6304.txt:Operations at Kathmandu's Tribuvan International Airport were suspended and Nepal's parliament, which was in session when the quake struck, was adjourned.
6305.txt:“We will continue to stay in the tent but it’s wet here and the rain came into the tent, which we are sharing with 24 people.”Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport, the main entry point for flights bringing in aid, was briefly closed again on Tuesday as a precaution.
630.txt:Mahesh Kumar Maskey, Nepali Ambassador to China, saw off the rescue team at the airport. He extended gratitude to China on behalf of the Nepali government and people.
6310.txt:The Tribhuvan International Airport confirmed that the chopper had lost contact with the control tower at 3 p.m. on Tuesday.
6314.txt:Meanwhile, the Air Force's 36th Contingency Response Group is continuing to help offload humanitarian aid at Tribhuvan International Airport, an official said.
6327.txt:Residents were sent scurrying into the streets in Kathmandu and flights out of Kathmandu Airport were temporarily suspended.
6333.txt:Kathmandu airport resumes operations
6333.txt:Flights are landing and taking off from Kathmandu Airport again after earlier closure due to earthquake pic.twitter.com/kBdWg7Qg0J — Flightradar24 (@flightradar24) May 12, 2015
6333.txt:Kathmandu Airport shut after earthquake
6343.txt:Alden Williams/Fairfax NZ Lama Zopa Rinpoche arrives at Nelson Airport on Wednesday.
6343.txt:More than 60 people holding flowers and ceremonial Tibetan scarves greeted Lama Zopa at Nelson Airport yesterday.
6343.txt:As Callaghan broke into the song Te Aroha, those in the airport, including bystanders and other slightly confused arrivals passengers, joined her as Lama Zopa smiled and soaked up the atmosphere.
6345.txt:He should be arriving at John F. Kennedy Airport around 1 p.m. on Thursday, she said.
6351.txt:In contrast to India’s swift response to the April 25 Nepal quake, New Delhi has decided to wait for Kathmandu to seek its help through diplomatic channels. However, India has decided to give visa-on-arrival, both at airports and land entry points, and establish a mission desk at its embassy in Kathmandu to coordinate aid and relief work. Home minister Rajnath Singh spoke to Indian ambassador to Nepal Ranjeet Ray and took stock of the situation in Nepal.
6354.txt:Two MV-22Bs tilt-rotor Osprey aircraft were preparing to join the search, and additional MV-22 crews were on standby Thursday. A battalion-sized Nepalese ground force had also moved into the area to assist with the search. The 36th Contingency Response Group, also with JTF 505, is continuing to support civil aviation authorities offloading humanitarian aid at Kathmandu’s international airport, a JTF 505 statement said.
6358.txt:Nepal's only international airport closed following quake
6358.txt:KATHMANDU, May 12 (Xinhua) -- Nepal's only international airport Tribhuwan International Airport has been closed following the powerful earthquake Tuesday afternoon.
6358.txt:The airport in Kathmandu was closed immediately after the 7.4 magnitude quake jolted Nepal, an airport official told Xinhua over phone. More details are yet to be ascertained.
6358.txt:Earlier on Monday, the airport was closed for one hour in the noon following trouble in runway.
6359.txt:As far as the reconstruction is concerned, he said, infrastructure is very important and the building of road and airport as well as some sort of energy production are in priority.
6363.txt:The airport has been closed more than 50 miles away in Kathmandu.
6370.txt:Kathmandu's airport has been closed, following
6370.txt:Cc. lalasticlala ishilove A deadly magnitude 7.3 earthquake has struckNepal, two weeks after a devastating quakekilled more than 8,000 people in the Himalayannation, the USGS has reported.Officials said at least 36 people had been killedand more than 1,100 injured in the new quakein Nepal, which the USGS initially reported asmagnitude 7.1, before later upgrading it tomagnitude 7.3. In addition, the national disastermanagement authority in India said 17 diedthere.The quake, which struck 18km southeast ofKodari, near the base camp for Mt Everest, wasmeasured at a shallow depth of about 18km. Aseries of aftershocks - including one 6.3magnitude tremor - later hit in the same area,the USGS reported.The Nepalese Ministry of Home Affairs reportedthat at least 36 people were killed in the quakeand at least 1,117 were injured.At least 19 buildings have collapsed, officialssaid, including 10 in Kathmandu.Police issued a public warning, calling forpeople to stay in open areas and to send textmessages instead of making calls, to preventthe network from becoming jammed.Al Jazeera's Annette Ekin, reporting fromKathmandu, said that there was "utter panic" inthe capital following the quake."The earth just started rolling. Everyone ran outonto the streets and all of the shops are nowshuttered," she said, adding that the quakeseemed to last about 30 seconds.A woman who works for a finance company inThamel, in Kathmandu, told Al Jazeera that shehad clung on to a pillar inside her buildingwhen the quake struck."I was screaming. It felt like the house wasfalling," she said.Al Jazeera's Andrew Simmons, also reportingfrom Kathmandu, said the quake was sopowerful that it made the building he was in"feel like jelly".[img] http://t0.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn:ANd9GcTxIAlj7_IVO69HvG1oi9Q2paWc1RpXzl5DgkiL2AvGObsjUaSi90DTIWlO90P9r7eM9Q [/img][img] http://t3.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn:ANd9GcQDuI2yofzMwbWs33S_gAiozJusFzr0lJlSVYRkgUuq3883g8gy-zUGl6Pn [/img]Tremors were felt in northern parts ofneighbouring India, Afghanistan and Indonesia.Two hours after the quake struck, ourcorrespondent Ekin said that no one inKathmandu appeared willing to go backindoors."Everyone is outside in the streets. At my hotel,all of the staff and guests are sitting aroundoutside, waiting for more information," shesaid.Kathmandu's airport has been closed, followingthe quake.A 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck on April 25,killing at least 8,046 people and injuring morethan 17,800.Cc. lalasticlala ishilove
6387.txt:Just seventy kilometers south of Israel’s Ben Gurion International Airport, from where its rescue crews took off for Nepal, the Gaza Strip still lies in ruins, the product of the seven-week military assault that destroyed around 10,000 civilian homes and left at least 100,000 homeless. This week, Breaking the Silence, an organization of dissident Israeli soldiers, released testimony from troops involved in that operation describing orders they say created a permissive climate for killing civilians in Gaza. Since the conflict, according to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA), not a single home has been rebuilt. Residents of Gaza languish in rubble largely as a result of the refusal of the Israeli and Egyptian governments to allow rebuilding materials to enter the Hamas-controlled area.
6390.txt:Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu greeted the IDF delegation on Tuesday morning when it arrived at Ben Gurion International Airport.
6405.txt:Plans to fly the dismantled Chinooks to Nepal in transporter aircraft were first announced on 30 April. But Nepalese authorities were forced to close the international airport in Kathmandu after cracks appeared in the runway, forcing the UK to divert the helicopters to Delhi for reassembly.
6407.txt:Kathmandu's airport, the main entry point for flights bringing in aid, was briefly closed after Tuesday's quake.
6416.txt:The international airport in Kathmandu, which has become a transport hub for international aid, was closed temporarily, while traffic snarled in the streets of Kathmandu.
6417.txt:The Center also reported a second, 6.2-magnitude quake in the area. Nepalese authorities immediately ordered the closure of Kathmandu airport. Aid agencies confirmed that at least 16 people were killed, with as many as 300 injured. The 7.5 tremor was also felt across northern and eastern India, and in the Bangladesh capital, Dhaka.
6421.txt:JEWISH KING JESUS IS COMING AT THE RAPTURE FOR US IN THE CLOUDS-DON'T MISS IT FOR THE WORLD.THE BIBLE TAKEN LITERALLY- WHEN THE PLAIN SENSE MAKES GOOD SENSE-SEEK NO OTHER SENSE-LEST YOU END UP IN NONSENSE.GET SAVED NOW- CALL ON JESUS TODAY.THE ONLY SAVIOR OF THE WHOLE EARTH - NO OTHER. 1 COR 15:23-JESUS THE FIRST FRUITS-CHRISTIANS RAPTURED TO JESUS-FIRST FRUITS OF THE SPIRIT-23 But every man in his own order: Christ the firstfruits; afterward they that are Christ’s at his coming.ROMANS 8:23 And not only they, but ourselves also, which have the firstfruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting for the adoption, to wit, the redemption of our body.(THE PRE-TRIB RAPTURE)EARTHQUAKESISAIAH 42:1515 I will make waste mountains and hills, and dry up all their herbs; and I will make the rivers islands, and I will dry up the pools.MATTHEW 24:7-87 For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom: and there shall be famines, and pestilences, and earthquakes, in divers places.8 All these are the beginning of sorrows.MARK 13:88 For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom:(ETHNIC GROUP AGAINST ETHNIC GROUP) and there shall be earthquakes in divers places, and there shall be famines and troubles: these are the beginnings of sorrows.LUKE 21:1111 And great earthquakes shall be in divers places,(DIFFERNT PLACES AT THE SAME TIME) and famines, and pestilences; and fearful sights and great signs shall there be from heaven.UPDATE MAY 12,2015-12:00PMUPDATE AFTERSHOCKS FROM 7.8-7.3 QUAKES AT NEPAL AT 12PM2.6 39km ESE of Bridgeport, California 2015-05-12 09:05:20 UTC-04:00 13.8 km2.7 17km WSW of Neah Bay, Washington 2015-05-12 07:53:15 UTC-04:00 5.5 kmUPDATE MAY 12,2015-12:00PMUPDATE AFTERSHOCKS FROM 7.3 QUAKE AT NEPAL AT 08AM5.0 99km NNE of Hihifo, Tonga 2015-05-12 06:03:22 UTC-04:00 10.0 km4.6 7km SSE of Yangi Qal`ah, Afghanistan 2015-05-12 05:15:30 UTC-04:00 10.0 km2.9 16km SSE of Sterling, Alaska 2015-05-12 03:54:59 UTC-04:00 51.2 km5.4 36km SSW of Zuobude, China 2015-05-12 03:34:22 UTC-04:00 15.0 km5.4 242km WNW of Saumlaki, Indonesia 2015-05-12 03:22:04 UTC-04:00 154.7 km5.1 238km S of Sindangsari, Indonesia 2015-05-12 02:27:06 UTC-04:00 29.7 km4.7 6km ESE of Yangi Qal`ah, Afghanistan 2015-05-12 02:10:58 UTC-04:00 9.8 km4.8 158km SW of Nadi, Fiji 2015-05-11 23:50:38 UTC-04:00 29.6 km3.1 6km SW of Volcano, Hawaii 2015-05-11 21:40:41 UTC-04:00 2.5 km3.9 18km NNE of Villa Nunoa, Santiago, Chile, Chile 2015-05-11 20:36:12 UTC-04:00 92.6 km4.3 9km SW of Hualian, Taiwan 2015-05-11 19:43:14 UTC-04:00 15.6 km4.0 8km N of Elmadag, Turkey 2015-05-11 19:40:51 UTC-04:00 6.8 km3.1 51km WNW of Anchor Point, Alaska 2015-05-11 19:32:48 UTC-04:00 100.1 km2.7 36km N of Charlotte Amalie, U.S. Virgin Islands 2015-05-11 19:25:43 UTC-04:00 26.0 km2.6 82km NNE of Road Town, British Virgin Islands 2015-05-11 19:09:08 UTC-04:00 44.0 km4.1 43km ESE of Farkhar, Afghanistan 2015-05-11 18:43:11 UTC-04:00 207.1 km4.5 52km SSE of Ndoi Island, Fiji 2015-05-11 17:35:02 UTC-04:00 550.6 km5.3 Mid-Indian Ridge 2015-05-11 13:42:02 UTC-04:00 10.1 km4.5 45km ENE of Tocache Nuevo, Peru 2015-05-11 12:29:08 UTC-04:00 109.0 km5.2 80km N of Ternate, Indonesia 2015-05-11 11:45:08 UTC-04:00 156.5 km4.5 85km SSE of Severo-Kuril'sk, Russia 2015-05-11 10:17:03 UTC-04:00 55.7 km2.5 22km ESE of Seward, Alaska 2015-05-11 08:46:52 UTC-04:00 5.5 km5.5 158km SW of Panguna, Papua New Guinea 2015-05-11 07:51:20 UTC-04:00 39.0 km2.5 23km SE of Kettleman City, California 2015-05-11 07:37:45 UTC-04:00 4.0 kmUPDATE AFTERSHOCKS FROM 7.8 QUAKE AT KATHMANDU AT 08AM3.6 16km NW of Grapevine, California 2015-05-10 11:42:58 UTC-04:00 0.6 kmKATHMANDU (Reuters) - Nineteen people were killed in Nepal and 981 injured in an earthquake on Tuesday, home ministry official Laxmi Prasad Dhakal told Reuters, giving a first national estimate.The quake, with a magnitude of 7.3, struck less than three weeks after a 7.8 temblor killed more than 8,000 people and damaged hundreds of thousands of homes in the Himalayan nation.(Reporting by Gopal Sharma; Writing by Douglas Busvine; Editing by Frank Jack Daniel)KATHMANDU, Nepal (AP) — A major earthquake hit a remote region of Nepal on Tuesday, killing at least 19 people, triggering landslides and toppling buildings less than three weeks after the Himalayan nation was ravaged by its worst quake in decades.Information was slow to reach the capital, Kathmandu, but officials and aid workers said they expected the death toll to almost certainly rise.Within a few hours, the government confirmed that 19 people were killed and at least 981 injured, Home Ministry official Laxmi Dhakal said.Rescue helicopters were sent to mountainous districts northeast of Kathmandu, where landslides and buildings collapsed by the magnitude-7.3 quake may have left people buried, the government said. Dhakal said the Sindhupalchowk and Dolakha districts were the hardest hit.Rescuers fanned out to search for survivors in Sindhulpalchowk's town of Chautara, where several buildings collapsed. Chautara has become a hub for humanitarian aid after the magnitude-7.8 quake on April 25 killed more than 8,150 people and injured more than 17,860 as it flattened mountain villages and destroyed buildings. It was Nepal's worst recorded earthquake since 1934.Tuesday's quake was deeper, however, coming from a depth of 18.5 kilometers (11.5 miles) versus the earlier one at 15 kilometers (9.3 miles). Shallow earthquakes tend to cause more damage.The Tuesday quake was followed closely by at least six strong aftershocks, according to the U.S. Geological Survey.The international airport in Kathmandu, which has become a transport hub for international aid, was closed briefly after Tuesday's quake, while traffic snarled in the streets of the capital.Early reports indicated at least two buildings had collapsed in Kathmandu, though at least one had been unoccupied due to damage it sustained during the April 25 quake. Experts say the April 25 quake caused extensive structural damage even in buildings that did not topple, and that many could be in danger of future collapse."The shaking seemed to go on and on," Rose Foley, a UNICEF official based in Kathmandu, said after the latest quake. "It felt like being on a boat in rough seas."Aid agencies were struggling to get reports from outside of the capital."We're thinking about children across the country, and who are already suffering. This could make them even more vulnerable," Foley said.Residents of the small town of Namche Bazaar, about 50 kilometers (35 miles) from the epicenter of the latest quake and a well-known spot for high-altitude trekkers, said a couple of buildings damaged in the earlier earthquake collapsed Tuesday. However, there were no reports of deaths or injuries in the town.Meanwhile, new landslides blocked mountain roads in the district of Gorkha, one of the most damaged regions after the April 25 quake."People are terribly scared. Everyone ran out in the streets because they are afraid of being inside the houses," Norwegian Red Cross Secretary-General Asne Havnelid told Norwegian broadcaster NRK.-At Kathmandu's Norvic Hospital, patients and doctors rushed to the parking lot."I thought I was going to die this time," said Sulav Singh, who rushed with his daughter into a street in the suburban neighborhood of Thapathali. "Things were just getting back to normal, and we get this one."Nepalese have been terrified by dozens of aftershocks that followed the April 25 quake. The impoverished country has appealed for billions of dollars in aid from foreign nations, as well as medical experts to treat the wounded and helicopters to ferry food and temporary shelters to hundreds of thousands left homeless amid unseasonal rains.Paul Dillon, a spokesman with the International Organization for Migration, said he saw a man in Kathmandu who had apparently run from the shower with shampoo covering his head. "He was sitting on the ground, crying," Dillon said.Across the Nepalese border in Tibet's Jilong and Zhangmu regions, the earth shook strongly. Tremors were also felt slightly in the Tibetan capital, Lhasa."Rocks fell from the mountains," Jilong county government vice chief Wang Wenxiang was quoted as saying by China News Service. "There might be some houses collapsed or damaged. We are now checking on the condition of the people."__Daigle reported from New Delhi. Associated Press writers Tim Sullivan in New Delhi, Ian Mader in Beijing and Jan M. Olsen in Copenhagen, Denmark, contributed to this report.
6422.txt:Prime Minister Benajamin Netanyahu greeted the returning IDF Nepal delegation on Tuesday morning at Ben-Gurion Airport just after another strong earthquake shook the devastated Himalayan country.
6425.txt:At least 30 of the country’s 75 administrative districts were affected, according to state-run Radio Nepal. The quake caused the temporary closure of Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport, the hub for relief operations, and was felt as far away as New Delhi, about 500 miles west of Kathmandu.
6427.txt:Kathmandu airport that was closed following the massive earthquake on Tuesday noon has reopened, according to local media
6427.txt:In addition, Kathmandu Airport has been shut down following today's earthquake as a precautionary measure.
6427.txt:"The airport is closed for operations right now," Birendra Prasad Shrestha, manager at Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport, told AFP.
6428.txt:LIVE UPDATES: 7.00 PM: One person killed and three injured in landslide triggered by the quake in Tibet, according to China Central Television 6.30 PM: Two people killed and half-a-dozen others injured as earthquake rock many parts of Uttar Pradesh 6.20 PM: Sources said India will not send any rescue team to Nepal to assist the local administration unless the neighbouring country seeks help More #NepalQuake: While aftershocks continue, only 13% of requirement is funded. More is needed to scale up the response. pic.twitter.com/b0wwj5O2rQ — UN OCHA Asia Pacific (@OCHAAsiaPac) May 12, 2015 6.10 PM: External Affairs Ministry sets up control rooms both in Delhi and in Nepal to provide information More 6.00 PM: Twitteratti world abuzz with messages expressing concern and sharing information about safety and security More 5.30 PM: Nepal's Home Ministry raises the death toll from the latest quake to at least 42, while saying another 1,117 people injured Another earthquake in Nepal. MEA sets up control-room. Here r contact details: + 91 11 23012113 + 91 11 23014104 + 91 11 23017905 — Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) May 12, 2015 4.45 PM: Nepal's Home Ministry raises the death toll from the latest earthquake to at least 36 4:25 PM: Nepal's Home Ministry says at least 19 people killed and 981 injured in latest earthquake 4.00 PM: IAF choppers sent to survey quake-hit areas 3.51 PM: Latest reports say at least 26 people killed and over 150 injured in Nepal 3.45 PM: Round-the-clock control room opened at West Bengal secretariat in Nabanna. The numbers are 1070 and 22143526. 3.44 PM: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee urges the residents to stay calm (More) 3.40 PM: Reports say death toll in Bihar rises to 10 3:40 PM: PM Modi is holding high level review meeting 3.35 PM: Kolkata Metro services halted due to the tremors 3:30 PM: Tremors were felt across the border in Tibet's Jilong and Zhangmu regions, and was felt slightly in the Tibetan capital of Lhasa. Jilong county government vice chief Wang Wenxiang was quoted as saying by China News Service that "rocks fell from the mountains" and that "there might be some houses collapsed or damaged. We are now checking on the condition of the people." 3:20 PM: Kathmandu Airport Re-opens After Quake 3:00 PM: Seven Killed, 150 Injured in Nepal Quake: Police 2:58 PM: Jet Airways flight to Kathmandu diverted to Lucknow 2:55 PM: Home Minister along with NSA briefs PM on the earthquake 2:50 PM: School kids evacuated from Delhi schools after tremors PM took stock of the situation following the fresh major earthquake felt in Nepal and parts of India, at a high-level meeting. — PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2015 PM directed all concerned authorities to be on alert for carrying out rescue and relief operations, as required. — PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2015 2:40 PM: Four people confirmed killed in Nepal's Chautara town. IOM spokesman Paul Dillon says a search and rescue team has already begun searching through the wreckage of the small town following Tuesday's magnitude-7.4 quake 2:40 PM: Kathmandu international airports shut after earthquake 2:35 PM: Several houses collapse in Kathmandu, say Nepal media 2:32 PM: Indian Met Department says aftershocks may continue for weeks or months 2:28 PM: Other places that experienced tremors include Vijayawada, Gurgaon, Uttarakhand, Bhopal and Gujarat. 2.26 PM: 6 Aftershocks after the 7.3 magnitude earthquake in Nepal. Please do not panic and maintain calm. Earthquake situation is being closely monitored & officials are already in the field — Arvind Kejriwal (@ArvindKejriwal) May 12, 2015 2.13 PM: Hospitals evacuate patients from hospitals in Nepal. 2.04 PM: The mild tremors were felt in parts of Kodambakkam, Chennai. 2.03 PM: So far 4 dead in Chautara, Nepal, one in Sambhal district in Uttar Pradesh and 2 in Siwan district, Bihar. 2.01 PM: USGS reports four consecutive earthquakes. 1.57 PM: Indian Meteorological Department Director gives live updates on earthquake. 1.56 PM: 1st earthquake struck at 12.35 PM and second one was 1.06 PM. 1.55 PM: Nepal's earthquake is felt right upto Chennai. Heard the news right now, there is no need to panic: HM Rajnath Singh #earthquake pic.twitter.com/v20o70uDKf — ANI (@ANI_news) May 12, 2015 Moradabad (UP): School vacated after tremors were felt #earthquake pic.twitter.com/vlTzQmTIKl — ANI (@ANI_news) May 12, 2015 1.43 PM: One death confirmed in Sambhal district in Uttar Pradesh. 1.30 PM: Epicentre in Nepal is of 7.4 magnitude and Afghanistan of 6.2 magnitude. 1.20 PM: Aftershocks felt in Kochi. 1.18 PM: Earthquake caused from two epicentres, one in Afghanistan and another Nepal. 1.17 PM: Delhi Metro commuters rush out of underground stations. 1.16 PM: No one should get panicked: Rajnath Singh 1.14 PM: The India Meteorological Department official told IANS that the epicentre was in Nepal and the tremors were felt in north and east India, including Delhi, Guwahati, Lucknow and Jaipur. 1.12 PM: MET department says this is an aftershock of 26th April Nepal earthquake. 1.11 PM: Home Ministry is collecting details and information about any damage from earthquake in India: Home Minister Rajnath 1.10 PM: Immediate aftershocks being felt in Nepal and North India. 1.00 PM: Authorities said in many areas, high-rise buildings are being vacated. 12.58 PM: Tremors felt in Kolkata and Jalpagaudi in West Bengal 12.57 PM: Metro services were immediately put on restricted mode with speeds being slowed down while the DTC buses are already on strike. 12.55 PM: Tremors also felt in Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring states. 12.50 PM: Indian Meteorological department confirms 7.2 Magnitude.
6429.txt:Kathmandu's airport, the main entry point for flights bringing in aid, was briefly closed after Tuesday's quake.
6431.txt:Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport, the main entry point for flights bringing in aid, was briefly closed again Tuesday as a precaution but reopened after a couple of hours.
6433.txt:Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport, the main entry point for flights bringing in international aid since the April quake, was closed anew Tuesday as a precaution.
6455.txt:http://www.ndtv.com/world-news/panic-at-airport-in-kathmandu-after-multiple-earthquakes-strike-nepal-762454
6455.txt:Panic at Airport in Kathmandu After Earthquakes Strike Nepal
6455.txt:People still standing out on tarmac at KTM airport, a lot of them on the phone #NepalQuakepic.twitter.com/mPHchGiXVI - Jack Board (@JackBoard) May 12, 2015
6455.txt:Operations have resumed at the Kathmandu airport which was shut down briefly after four earthquakes struck Nepal in quick succession on Tuesday afternoon and airlines are diverting flights.Nepalese authorities ordered the closure of the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu soon after the first earthquake of 7.3 magnitude struck, sparking panic in the Nepal capital.People reportedly ran out into safety and the airport was swiftly evacuated. "The airport is closed for operations right now," Birendra Prasad Shrestha, manager at the airport, told AFP.Videos posted on social media showed people rushing out to the open and crowding the tarmac, many of them talking on the phone soon after the quake struck.The Indian Meteorological Department has described today's quakes as aftershocks of the powerful 7.9-magnitude earthquake that struck Nepal on April 25. IMD officials said they expected aftershocks to continue, perhaps for months.Four people are reported killed in Nepal's Chautara, where several buildings have reportedly collapsed.8,000 people were killed and more than 17,000 injured in the April quake. Over 50 people had died in Bihar.
6456.txt:It forced the closure of Kathmandu's international airport, which has been the focus of aid efforts to help people affected by last month's earthquake.
6457.txt:It forced the closure of Kathmandu's international airport, which has been the focus of aid efforts to help people affected by last month's earthquake.
6458.txt:It forced the closure of Kathmandu's international airport, which has been the focus of aid efforts to help people affected by last month's earthquake.
6459.txt:It forced the closure of Kathmandu's international airport, which has been the focus of aid efforts to help people affected by last month's earthquake.
6460.txt:Hundreds of people running of out of Kathmandu airport. Scary shaking from aftershock #NepalQuake pic.twitter.com/XiIdB0BCCS — Jack Board (@JackBoard) May 12, 2015
6460.txt:Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport, the main entry point for flights bringing in international aid since the April quake, was closed anew as a precaution.
6465.txt:It had earlier measured the quake at 7.4 but revised the intensity later to 7.3.The quake hit Dolakha and Sindhupalchowk districts - the worst-affected areas in the last month's temblor.Home Ministry official Laxmi Dhakal said at least 19 people were killed and 981 were injured.The fresh quake triggered massive panic among the people, who have been staying in the open since the 7.9-magnitude temblor struck on April 25, killing over 8,000 people and flattening thousands of buildings."All available helicopters along with Medical Team; SSR Team going to be mobilised to Dolakha and Sindhupalchowk soon," said Nepal's National Emergency Operation Centre.The Indian Air Force (IAF) has stationed eight helicopters in Nepal and one of them conducted an aerial survey soon after today's quake.As many as six aftershocks measuring over 5 on the Richter Scale kept people on edge.Nepal's only international airport, the Tribhuvan International Airport, was briefly closed by authorities and flights to Kathmandu were diverted.Strong tremors were felt in the capital Kathmandu where people ran out of their houses in panic and some even started crying. Authorities appealed to people to stay in open field.The temblor triggered landslides and toppled buildings in Nepal that recently witnessed its worst quake in over 80 years and over 160 aftershocks.Today's quake had its impact in several cities in Bihar, West Bengal and UP and tremors were felt across vast stretches of east and northeast India. It was also felt in China.
6466.txt:Kathmandu airport was closed temporarily as the ATC staff hurried out of the tower. The airport -- Nepal's only international airport -- was shortly thereafter reopened for normal traffic.
6475.txt:"As we hiked down to the airport at Lukla, we saw tons of homes that had completely collapsed as well as where rock slides had ripped through parts of the trail we had hiked only a few days before," Graeme Harten said.
6483.txt:The RAF had planned to transport the helicopters to Kathmandu for reassembly, but they were diverted to India because of runway damage at Nepal's only international airport, according to The Times. (Reporting By Kieran Guilbert; Editing by Tim Pearce)
6487.txt:An injured man is moved on a stretcher at Kathmandu Airport. Just three weeks earlier the region was devastated when another quake struck
6487.txt:RAF HELICOPTERS SENT TO HELP EARTHQUAKE VICTIMS ARE BARRED FROM ENTERING NEPAL Nepal has denied entry to three British Chinook helicopters sent to aid the earthquake effort - amid fears they could damage buildings when landing. The RAF aircraft arrived in New Delhi, India last week ahead of plans to fly them across the border and join the international rescue operation. But the Nepalese foreign ministry has refused permission for them to enter the quake-hit country with a spokesman suggesting they are too big to land near houses. The spokesman, Tara Pokharel, added: 'We have told the British authorities that they cannot fly their Chinook helicopters here because our technical team says they are likely to damage the houses and other buildings in the Kathmandu valley. 'We are worried about broken windows and roofs being blown off by these big helicopters.' It comes as a second major earthquake hit an isolated area of Nepal today near the Chinese border between the capital, Kathmandu, and Mount Everest. Britain flew the helicopters out from RAF Brize Norton in transporter aircraft on April 30. According to the Times, the RAF had planned to transport the helicopters to Kathmandu for reassembly - but when it became clear Nepal's only international airport was too damaged, they were diverted to India. The 7.8 magnitude earthquake on April 25 killed more than 8,000 people and left thousands more homeless and in desperate need of food, clean water and shelter. Getting relief to the worst-hit villages is a huge challenge because many are in remote mountainous terrain that is only accessible by helicopter or on foot. India, China and the United States have sent helicopters and are helping take food, water and tents to affected communities.
6489.txt:On the first day of the clinic we got up at 4am, having already packed all our supplies the night before, and went to the airport. We had to wait because it was raining and we were unsure whether we would be able to fly. We managed to take off a few hours later and headed up into the mountains.
6491.txt:Jack Board, a reporter at Channel NewsAsia, filmed chaotic scenes at Kathmandu Airport of hundreds of people running from the building as the ground shook.
6491.txt:But, despite the initial fury, that airport was operational by later in the afternoon.
6491.txt:People in Lukla, a town that serves as a gateway to the Everest region, rushed to the airport so they could be in an open area as the earth shook again. Most of Lukla’s buildings are perched precariously on hilly ground.
6491.txt:The airport is reported to be in a risky setting because of the short runway that’s surrounded by mountains.
6499.txt:De Wojtek Wilk, CEO of the Polish Center for International Aid, said he could send his team of medics “back straight from the airport.”
6506.txt:The international airport in Kathmandu, which has become a transport hub for international aid, was closed temporarily, while traffic snarled in the streets of Kathmandu.
6506.txt:No departures or arrivals allowed at #Kathmandu airport. The runway was already damaged after first big quake. #nepal — Daniele Hamamdjian (@DHamamdjian) May 12, 2015
6508.txt:Kathmandu airport was closed temporarily as the ATC staff hurried out of the tower.
6509.txt:Hundreds of people running of out of Kathmandu airport. Scary shaking from aftershock #NepalQuake pic.twitter.com/XiIdB0BCCS — Jack Board (@JackBoard) May 12, 2015
6513.txt:A Jet Airways flight from Mumbai for Kathmandu was diverted to Lucknow while Air India's second flight from the national capital was put on hold due to the airport closure for about two hours.
6513.txt:"Due to closure of Kathmandu airport immediately after the earthquake, Jet Airways flight 9W 266 from Mumbai to Kathmandu was diverted to Lucknow," a Jet Airways spokesperson said.
6513.txt:After the airport was declared operational, the flight departed from Lucknow for its destination, Jet Airways said.
6513.txt:The Air India flight from New Delhi for Kathmandu, which was to take off at its scheduled time of 12.55 pm, was delayed due to the airport not being functional during that period.
6513.txt:It finally took off for Tribhuvan International Airport around 1515 hours.
6513.txt:Air India operates three flights to the Himalayan country- two from New Delhi and one from Kolkata. The scheduled time of departure from Kolkata airport is 1545 hours.
6515.txt:"Some of the partner groups actually came out and picked it up from the airport and we arranged trucks from the United Nations to deliver it to some of the hospitals around Kathmandu swamped with patients," Tighe said.
6518.txt:LIVE UPDATES: 7.00 PM: One person killed and three injured in landslide triggered by the quake in Tibet, according to China Central Television 6.30 PM: Two people killed and half-a-dozen others injured as earthquake rock many parts of Uttar Pradesh 6.20 PM: Sources said India will not send any rescue team to Nepal to assist the local administration unless the neighbouring country seeks help More #NepalQuake: While aftershocks continue, only 13% of requirement is funded. More is needed to scale up the response. pic.twitter.com/b0wwj5O2rQ — UN OCHA Asia Pacific (@OCHAAsiaPac) May 12, 2015 6.10 PM: External Affairs Ministry sets up control rooms both in Delhi and in Nepal to provide information More 6.00 PM: Twitteratti world abuzz with messages expressing concern and sharing information about safety and security More 5.30 PM: Nepal's Home Ministry raises the death toll from the latest quake to at least 42, while saying another 1,117 people injured Another earthquake in Nepal. MEA sets up control-room. Here r contact details: + 91 11 23012113 + 91 11 23014104 + 91 11 23017905 — Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) May 12, 2015 4.45 PM: Nepal's Home Ministry raises the death toll from the latest earthquake to at least 36 4:25 PM: Nepal's Home Ministry says at least 19 people killed and 981 injured in latest earthquake 4.00 PM: IAF choppers sent to survey quake-hit areas 3.51 PM: Latest reports say at least 26 people killed and over 150 injured in Nepal 3.45 PM: Round-the-clock control room opened at West Bengal secretariat in Nabanna. The numbers are 1070 and 22143526. 3.44 PM: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee urges the residents to stay calm (More) 3.40 PM: Reports say death toll in Bihar rises to 10 3:40 PM: PM Modi is holding high level review meeting 3.35 PM: Kolkata Metro services halted due to the tremors 3:30 PM: Tremors were felt across the border in Tibet's Jilong and Zhangmu regions, and was felt slightly in the Tibetan capital of Lhasa. Jilong county government vice chief Wang Wenxiang was quoted as saying by China News Service that "rocks fell from the mountains" and that "there might be some houses collapsed or damaged. We are now checking on the condition of the people." 3:20 PM: Kathmandu Airport Re-opens After Quake 3:00 PM: Seven Killed, 150 Injured in Nepal Quake: Police 2:58 PM: Jet Airways flight to Kathmandu diverted to Lucknow 2:55 PM: Home Minister along with NSA briefs PM on the earthquake 2:50 PM: School kids evacuated from Delhi schools after tremors PM took stock of the situation following the fresh major earthquake felt in Nepal and parts of India, at a high-level meeting. — PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2015 PM directed all concerned authorities to be on alert for carrying out rescue and relief operations, as required. — PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2015 2:40 PM: Four people confirmed killed in Nepal's Chautara town. IOM spokesman Paul Dillon says a search and rescue team has already begun searching through the wreckage of the small town following Tuesday's magnitude-7.4 quake 2:40 PM: Kathmandu international airports shut after earthquake 2:35 PM: Several houses collapse in Kathmandu, say Nepal media 2:32 PM: Indian Met Department says aftershocks may continue for weeks or months 2:28 PM: Other places that experienced tremors include Vijayawada, Gurgaon, Uttarakhand, Bhopal and Gujarat. 2.26 PM: 6 Aftershocks after the 7.3 magnitude earthquake in Nepal. Please do not panic and maintain calm. Earthquake situation is being closely monitored & officials are already in the field — Arvind Kejriwal (@ArvindKejriwal) May 12, 2015 2.13 PM: Hospitals evacuate patients from hospitals in Nepal. 2.04 PM: The mild tremors were felt in parts of Kodambakkam, Chennai. 2.03 PM: So far 4 dead in Chautara, Nepal, one in Sambhal district in Uttar Pradesh and 2 in Siwan district, Bihar. 2.01 PM: USGS reports four consecutive earthquakes. 1.57 PM: Indian Meteorological Department Director gives live updates on earthquake. 1.56 PM: 1st earthquake struck at 12.35 PM and second one was 1.06 PM. 1.55 PM: Nepal's earthquake is felt right upto Chennai. Heard the news right now, there is no need to panic: HM Rajnath Singh #earthquake pic.twitter.com/v20o70uDKf — ANI (@ANI_news) May 12, 2015 Moradabad (UP): School vacated after tremors were felt #earthquake pic.twitter.com/vlTzQmTIKl — ANI (@ANI_news) May 12, 2015 1.43 PM: One death confirmed in Sambhal district in Uttar Pradesh. 1.30 PM: Epicentre in Nepal is of 7.4 magnitude and Afghanistan of 6.2 magnitude. 1.20 PM: Aftershocks felt in Kochi. 1.18 PM: Earthquake caused from two epicentres, one in Afghanistan and another Nepal. 1.17 PM: Delhi Metro commuters rush out of underground stations. 1.16 PM: No one should get panicked: Rajnath Singh 1.14 PM: The India Meteorological Department official told IANS that the epicentre was in Nepal and the tremors were felt in north and east India, including Delhi, Guwahati, Lucknow and Jaipur. 1.12 PM: MET department says this is an aftershock of 26th April Nepal earthquake. 1.11 PM: Home Ministry is collecting details and information about any damage from earthquake in India: Home Minister Rajnath 1.10 PM: Immediate aftershocks being felt in Nepal and North India. 1.00 PM: Authorities said in many areas, high-rise buildings are being vacated. 12.58 PM: Tremors felt in Kolkata and Jalpagaudi in West Bengal 12.57 PM: Metro services were immediately put on restricted mode with speeds being slowed down while the DTC buses are already on strike. 12.55 PM: Tremors also felt in Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring states. 12.50 PM: Indian Meteorological department confirms 7.2 Magnitude.
6519.txt:The earthquake struck at 12:35 PM, some 83 km east of Kathmandu near Mount Everest at a shallow depth of 15 km, the US Geological Survey(USGS) said.The agency had earlier measured the quake at 7.4 on the Richter Scale but later revised the intensity to 7.3.The quake hit Dolakha and Sindhupalchowk districts - the worst-affected areas in the last month's temblor. At least 26 people were killed in Dolakha, police said, adding a total of 32 of 75 districts were affected in the fresh quake.A second tremor of 6.3-magnitude struck about 30 minutes after the 7.3-magnitude quake that sent terrifed residents running into the streets of the traumatised capital.The USGS said there were five more aftershocks measuring over 5 on the Richter Scale after the second tremor that kept people on the edge.According to the Indian Meteorological Department(IMD), the first quake was followed by at least seven more tremors in a span of less than two hours.Police said several houses collapsed in the quake.The fresh quake triggered massive panic among the people, who have been staying in the open since the 7.9-magnitude lethal temblor struck on April 25, killing over 8,000 people and flattening thousands of buildings besides destroying whole villages."All available helicopters along with Medical Team; SSR Team going to be mobilised to Dolakha and Sindhupalchowk soon," said Nepal's National Emergency Operation Centre.The Indian Air Force (IAF) has stationed eight helicopters in Nepal and one of them conducted an aerial survey soon after today's quake.Nepal's only international airport, the Tribhuvan International Airport, was briefly closed by authorities and flights to Kathmandu were diverted.Authorities have also ordered all schools to be closed for the next two weeks.Strong tremors were felt in Kathmandu where people ran out of their houses in panic and some even started crying. Authorities appealed to people to stay in open field.The temblor triggered landslides and toppled buildings in Nepal that recently witnessed its worst quake in over 80 years and over 160 aftershocks.At the main hospital in Kathmandu, patients hurt in last month's quake were brought out in wheelchairs to avoid further injury.Today's quake had its impact in several cities in Bihar, West Bengal and UP and tremors were felt across vast stretches of east and northeast India, where the death toll has reached 17 so far.The tremors were also felt in China, where one woman was killed in Tibet.
6533.txt:Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu greeted the IDF delegation on Tuesday morning when it arrived at Ben Gurion International Airport.
6538.txt:The RAF had planned to transport the helicopters to Kathmandu for reassembly, but they were diverted to India because of runway damage at Nepal's only international airport, according to The Times. (Reporting By Kieran Guilbert; Editing by Tim Pearce)
6540.txt:Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport, the main entry point for flights bringing in aid, was briefly closed again Tuesday as a precaution.
6545.txt:Kathmandu airport was initially evacuated as a precautionary measure, however, it later resumed its normal business. Nepal’s Foreign Minister Mahendra Pandey said that telephone lines have gone dead but efforts were on to restore telecommunication services across the country. Most of the people are out on the streets. Nepal Cabinet will meet soon for damage assessment, he added.
6548.txt:Buildings shook in the capital city of Kathmandu, and the airport was closed amid numerous aftershocks. Fearing the collapse of buildings, people took to the streets during and immediately after the quake, with many flocking to the Chabad center in the city, which has been a source of refuge and aid for weeks.
6549.txt:At least 30 of the country’s 75 administrative districts were affected, according to state-run Radio Nepal. The quake caused the temporary closure of Katmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport, the hub for relief operations, and was felt as far away as New Delhi, 500 miles west of Katmandu.
6550.txt:It forced the closure of Kathmandu's international airport, which has been the focus of aid efforts to help people affected by last month's earthquake.
6550.txt:“The airport facilities were damaged by the first quake but our supply lines through Oxfam in India means we are able to deliver aid fast despite damage to infrastructure. If we can get more supplies we can deliver them.”
6552.txt:Netanyahu was speaking at Ben-Gurion airport as he welcomed home a 260-member army team of medics and search and rescue experts who had spent 14 days in Nepal following an initial quake on April 25.
6552.txt:The international airport in Kathmandu, which has become a transport hub for international aid, was closed temporarily on Tuesday afternoon following the quake.
6566.txt:KATHMANDU, Nepal -- Airmen and Nepalese officials worked together to repair the runway at the Tribhuvan International Airport here May 9 through 10.
6566.txt:"The repairs will allow the continued throughput of humanitarian aid and relief supplies by ultimately preserving the life of the single international airport in Nepal," said Capt. Ryan White, 36th CRG airfield operations. "This airfield is Nepal's lifeline for relief supplies and for international travel, so these repairs will help the airfield keep pace with the aid coming in so the Government of Nepal can keep getting assistance to the people who need it."
6566.txt:During the dark of the nights when operations ceased at the airport, four Airmen joined the six-man Nepalese team to conduct the repairs.
6566.txt:Within one to three hours of completing the repairs, the runway was operational again - just in time for the airport to open up and receive morning flights and thousands of pounds of relief supplies.
6568.txt:Mr Kohlenberg said once they were inside the airport a magnitude 6.9 quake struck and hysteria erupted. "Families and people were yelling and screaming, running everywhere," he said.
6569.txt:And an aid base opened in March at Kathmandu airport by the United Nations with UK funding, plus training for staff and logistics support from Deutsche Post DHL Group, have eased the flow of relief goods.
6572.txt:http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/kathmandu-airport-shut-down-briefly-after-quake-115051201232_1.html
6572.txt:Kathmandu airport shut down briefly after quake
6572.txt:Nepal's only international airport, the vital entry point for flights bringing in aid, was today briefly shut down after a massive 7.3-magnitude earthquake jolted the country, affecting flight operations.
6572.txt:The Tribhuvan International Airport was closed for flights for about two hours as major tremors rocked Nepal following today's quake that killed over people and brought down many structures.
6573.txt:“We will continue to stay in the tent but it’s wet here and the rain came into the tent, which we are sharing with 24 people. “Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport, the main entry point for flights bringing in aid, was briefly closed again Tuesday as a precaution but reopened after a couple of hours.
6575.txt:A new earthquake and several powerful aftershocks hit devastated Nepal on Tuesday, killing dozens of people and sending terrified residents running into the streets of the traumatized capital.The 7.3-magnitude quake struck at 12:35 pm local time, some 76 kilometers east of Kathmandu, the US Geological Survey said, more than two weeks after a 7.8-magnitude quake killed more than 8,000 people.At least 41 people have been reported dead as of press time in Tuesday's quake, which was felt as far away as New Delhi, and officials said it caused buildings to collapse in Tibet in neighboring China.A second tremor of 6.3-magnitude struck around half an hour later, followed by yet more aftershocks, according to the USGS.At least 19 people were killed in Nepal, according to national police spokesman Kamal Singh Bam, who put the number of injured at 679.Four more were killed across the border in India, according to officials, while Chinese state media said one person was killed in Tibet.The ground swayed for close to a minute from the first of Tuesday's tremors, according to an AFP correspondent in Kathmandu."We felt it and suddenly there were huge crowds running up and down," said resident Suresh Sharma, who was in a vegetable market at the time. "It was very scary and very difficult to make my way out," said the 63-year-old. "The last time we had the big quake I ran out of my house and barely escaped. This one felt just like that one. I can't believe it's happening again."The International Organization for Migration (IOM), which has a number of teams on the ground in the wake of the April 25 quake, said four people were crushed to death when buildings collapsed in Chautara, east of Kathmandu.Police said at least three people had been killed in the Kathmandu Valley while more than 300 people had been injured in the city itself.The impact was also felt in China and India where officials reported four people dead in the states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Rose Foley, working in Kathmandu for the UN's children's fund UNICEF, said staff dived under tables."The shaking seemed to go on and on. We got out to safety as soon as possible. Sitting out in the open it felt like I was on a boat on rough seas as aftershocks hit," she said by email.Although the latest quake did not appear to be as severe as the April 25 one, residents were terrified that buildings that were already badly damaged could come crashing down."I was thinking of moving to a rented room, but today was so scary I can't risk my family's life," Dipak Koirala, who has been living under a tent since April 25, said by phone from central Ramechhap district. Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport, the main entry point for flights bringing in aid, was briefly closed again Tuesday as a precaution but reopened after a couple of hours.
6578.txt:And only hours ago, as I sat in the departures lounge of the Kathmandu airport, with rainwater from a thunderstorm streaming through the ceiling and ever watchful for news of yet another closure due to cracks in the runway, I struggle to find the words to describe the effects of the first earthquake.
657.txt:Ten tourists in a group arranged by Dongling Tours were scheduled to return to Taiwan early yesterday morning, but the bureau said that they were still at an airport in Nepal, awaiting confirmation of their flight.
6583.txt:The international airport in Kathmandu, which has become a transport hub for international aid, was closed temporarily, while traffic snarled in the streets of Kathmandu.
6588.txt:Nepal's only international airport, the Tribhuvan International Airport, was briefly closed by authorities and flights to Kathmandu were diverted.
6592.txt:Nepal's only international airport, the Tribhuvan International Airport, was briefly closed by authorities and flights to Kathmandu were diverted.
6620.txt:Handicap International has storage facilities in France near Lyon, and in the United Nations Humanitarian Response Depot, close to Dubai airport, where we store different types of pre-packed kits, which are ready to be sent into the field during a disaster. They include kits of essential items, such as emergency shelters, bedding, hygiene, and cooking equipment, to which a winter option may be added. We also store kits for opening emergency rehabilitation centers, for the distribution of walking aids, and for the fitting of emergency orthoses, which are packed in such a way as to be loaded directly onto a plane in the event of an emergency.
6622.txt:The Sri Lanka Relief Contingent which was engaged in humanitarian relief operations in Nepal received a warm welcome on their arrival to Sri Lanka yesterday evening (11th Monday, May 2015) at Bandaranaike International Airport, Katunayake.
6623.txt:As far as the reconstruction is concerned, he said, infrastructure is very important and the building of road and airport as well as some sort of energy production are in priority.
6624.txt:Nepal's only international airport closed following quake
6624.txt:KATHMANDU, May 12 (Xinhua) -- Nepal's only international airport Tribhuwan International Airport has been closed following the powerful earthquake Tuesday afternoon.
6624.txt:The airport in Kathmandu was closed immediately after the 7.4 magnitude quake jolted Nepal, an airport official told Xinhua over phone. More details are yet to be ascertained.
6624.txt:Earlier on Monday, the airport was closed for one hour in the noon following trouble in runway.
6625.txt:The beautiful land-locked country of Nepal was yet again jolted by an earthquake measuring 7.4 on the Richter scale on Tuesday, May 12, just two weeks after India’s neighbours were left helpless with a devastating 7.8 earthquake. This was the second major quake after the first one left more than 8,000 dead. While Nepal remained the epicentre of the quake, strong tremors were felt in the neighbouring areas of India and Bangladesh. Several parts of Indian states like Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Bihar and parts of east India felt the tremors twice today. Also Watch: Latest Video from Nepal Earthquake: Huge aftershock felt at Tribhuvan Airport in Kathmandu
6627.txt:LIVE UPDATES: 7.00 PM: One person killed and three injured in landslide triggered by the quake in Tibet, according to China Central Television 6.30 PM: Two people killed and half-a-dozen others injured as earthquake rock many parts of Uttar Pradesh 6.20 PM: Sources said India will not send any rescue team to Nepal to assist the local administration unless the neighbouring country seeks help More #NepalQuake: While aftershocks continue, only 13% of requirement is funded. More is needed to scale up the response. pic.twitter.com/b0wwj5O2rQ — UN OCHA Asia Pacific (@OCHAAsiaPac) May 12, 2015 6.10 PM: External Affairs Ministry sets up control rooms both in Delhi and in Nepal to provide information More 6.00 PM: Twitteratti world abuzz with messages expressing concern and sharing information about safety and security More 5.30 PM: Nepal's Home Ministry raises the death toll from the latest quake to at least 42, while saying another 1,117 people injured Another earthquake in Nepal. MEA sets up control-room. Here r contact details: + 91 11 23012113 + 91 11 23014104 + 91 11 23017905 — Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) May 12, 2015 4.45 PM: Nepal's Home Ministry raises the death toll from the latest earthquake to at least 36 4:25 PM: Nepal's Home Ministry says at least 19 people killed and 981 injured in latest earthquake 4.00 PM: IAF choppers sent to survey quake-hit areas 3.51 PM: Latest reports say at least 26 people killed and over 150 injured in Nepal 3.45 PM: Round-the-clock control room opened at West Bengal secretariat in Nabanna. The numbers are 1070 and 22143526. 3.44 PM: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee urges the residents to stay calm (More) 3.40 PM: Reports say death toll in Bihar rises to 10 3:40 PM: PM Modi is holding high level review meeting 3.35 PM: Kolkata Metro services halted due to the tremors 3:30 PM: Tremors were felt across the border in Tibet's Jilong and Zhangmu regions, and was felt slightly in the Tibetan capital of Lhasa. Jilong county government vice chief Wang Wenxiang was quoted as saying by China News Service that "rocks fell from the mountains" and that "there might be some houses collapsed or damaged. We are now checking on the condition of the people." 3:20 PM: Kathmandu Airport Re-opens After Quake 3:00 PM: Seven Killed, 150 Injured in Nepal Quake: Police 2:58 PM: Jet Airways flight to Kathmandu diverted to Lucknow 2:55 PM: Home Minister along with NSA briefs PM on the earthquake 2:50 PM: School kids evacuated from Delhi schools after tremors PM took stock of the situation following the fresh major earthquake felt in Nepal and parts of India, at a high-level meeting. — PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2015 PM directed all concerned authorities to be on alert for carrying out rescue and relief operations, as required. — PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2015 2:40 PM: Four people confirmed killed in Nepal's Chautara town. IOM spokesman Paul Dillon says a search and rescue team has already begun searching through the wreckage of the small town following Tuesday's magnitude-7.4 quake 2:40 PM: Kathmandu international airports shut after earthquake 2:35 PM: Several houses collapse in Kathmandu, say Nepal media 2:32 PM: Indian Met Department says aftershocks may continue for weeks or months 2:28 PM: Other places that experienced tremors include Vijayawada, Gurgaon, Uttarakhand, Bhopal and Gujarat. 2.26 PM: 6 Aftershocks after the 7.3 magnitude earthquake in Nepal. Please do not panic and maintain calm. Earthquake situation is being closely monitored & officials are already in the field — Arvind Kejriwal (@ArvindKejriwal) May 12, 2015 2.13 PM: Hospitals evacuate patients from hospitals in Nepal. 2.04 PM: The mild tremors were felt in parts of Kodambakkam, Chennai. 2.03 PM: So far 4 dead in Chautara, Nepal, one in Sambhal district in Uttar Pradesh and 2 in Siwan district, Bihar. 2.01 PM: USGS reports four consecutive earthquakes. 1.57 PM: Indian Meteorological Department Director gives live updates on earthquake. 1.56 PM: 1st earthquake struck at 12.35 PM and second one was 1.06 PM. 1.55 PM: Nepal's earthquake is felt right upto Chennai. Heard the news right now, there is no need to panic: HM Rajnath Singh #earthquake pic.twitter.com/v20o70uDKf — ANI (@ANI_news) May 12, 2015 Moradabad (UP): School vacated after tremors were felt #earthquake pic.twitter.com/vlTzQmTIKl — ANI (@ANI_news) May 12, 2015 1.43 PM: One death confirmed in Sambhal district in Uttar Pradesh. 1.30 PM: Epicentre in Nepal is of 7.4 magnitude and Afghanistan of 6.2 magnitude. 1.20 PM: Aftershocks felt in Kochi. 1.18 PM: Earthquake caused from two epicentres, one in Afghanistan and another Nepal. 1.17 PM: Delhi Metro commuters rush out of underground stations. 1.16 PM: No one should get panicked: Rajnath Singh 1.14 PM: The India Meteorological Department official told IANS that the epicentre was in Nepal and the tremors were felt in north and east India, including Delhi, Guwahati, Lucknow and Jaipur. 1.12 PM: MET department says this is an aftershock of 26th April Nepal earthquake. 1.11 PM: Home Ministry is collecting details and information about any damage from earthquake in India: Home Minister Rajnath 1.10 PM: Immediate aftershocks being felt in Nepal and North India. 1.00 PM: Authorities said in many areas, high-rise buildings are being vacated. 12.58 PM: Tremors felt in Kolkata and Jalpagaudi in West Bengal 12.57 PM: Metro services were immediately put on restricted mode with speeds being slowed down while the DTC buses are already on strike. 12.55 PM: Tremors also felt in Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring states. 12.50 PM: Indian Meteorological department confirms 7.2 Magnitude.
6628.txt:Kathmandu airport was closed temporarily as the ATC staff hurried out of the tower. The airport -- Nepal's only international airport -- was shortly thereafter reopened for normal traffic.
6629.txt:“We will continue to stay in the tent but it's wet here and the rain came into the tent, which we are sharing with 24 people. “Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport, the main entry point for flights bringing in aid, was briefly closed again Tuesday as a precaution but reopened after a couple of hours.
6630.txt:The quake also caused a spasm of chaos at Kathmandu’s airport, where Channel NewsAsia reporter Jack Board filmed hundreds of people running from the building as the ground rumbled.
6630.txt:People in Lukla, a town that serves as a gateway to the Mount Everest region, rushed to the airport so they could be in an open area as the earth shook again. Most of Lukla’s buildings are perched precariously on hilly ground.
6630.txt:The airport is in a risky setting because of the short runway that’s surrounded by mountains.
6632.txt:De Wojtek Wilk, CEO of the Polish Center for International Aid, said he could send his team of medics "back straight from the airport."
6640.txt:Kathmandu airport was closed temporarily as the ATC staff hurried out of the tower. The airport — Nepal’s only international airport — was shortly thereafter reopened for normal traffic.
6643.txt:It forced the closure of Kathmandu's international airport, which has been the focus of aid efforts to help people affected by last month's earthquake.
6644.txt:A handout file picture dated 03 May 2015 and provided by the US Marine Expeditionary Force via Defense Video & Imagery Distribution System (DVIDS) shows US Marines unloading a UH-1Y Huey helicopter from a Boeing C-17 Globemaster III at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal. According to media reports on 12 May 2015, a US Marine Corps Huey has gone missing in the aftermath of another powerful earthquake that struck Nepal on the same day. EPA
6647.txt:The quake also caused a spasm of chaos at Kathmandu’s airport, where Channel NewsAsia reporter Jack Board filmed hundreds of people running from the building as the ground rumbled.
6647.txt:People in Lukla, a town that serves as a gateway to the Mount Everest region, rushed to the airport so they could be in an open area as the earth shook again. Most of Lukla’s buildings are perched precariously on hilly ground.
6647.txt:The airport is in a risky setting because of the short runway that’s surrounded by mountains.
6649.txt:“We will continue to stay in the tent but it's wet here and the rain came into the tent, which we are sharing with 24 people. “Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport, the main entry point for flights bringing in aid, was briefly closed again Tuesday as a precaution but reopened after a couple of hours.
6651.txt:The Tribhuvan International Airport closed briefly and flights to Kathmandu were diverted. Authorities also ordered closure of schools for two weeks and advised people to spend time in the open.
6652.txt:@JackBoard / Twitter Hundreds of people run out of Kathmandu airport in the moments after the quake hit.
6657.txt:A U.S. Marine UH-1 Huey helicopter flies over wreckage left over from U.S. bombing raids at Kandahar airport in December 2001. (Photo: John MacDougall, AFP)
6660.txt:◆ Hub for Aid The quake Tuesday caused landslides around Chautara, and more than 100 people had been injured in surrounding villages, chief district officer Krishna Gyawali told The Associated Press. Paul Dillon, a spokesman for the International Organization for Migration, said a rescue team from the agency has begun searching through the wreckage at Chautara, which was heavily damaged in April's earthquake. Chautara had become a hub for humanitarian aid in the wake of the earlier quake. Tuesday's quake was deeper, however, coming from a depth of 18.5 km versus the April 25 quake that hit 15 km. More shallow earthquakes tend to cause more damage at the surface. In Kathmandu, the international airport, which has become a transport hub for international aid, was closed temporarily. Traffic snarled in the streets. The city lost power. Shops that had just reopened after last month's quake quickly closed. Telephone circuits were inundated. Television footage showed Nepal's parliament shake as the quake struck. The quake also sent people rushing outside their homes, where many remained hours later. ◆ 'A lot of Confusion' Aid worker Mulchand Dedhia said, "I think there is still a lot of confusion, people still are actually in a dilemma on what to do next. I think they are still going to be waiting here trying to figure out the next step. I am pretty sure people here are pretty shaken, so I don’t think they will be venturing anywhere inside at least for some more time." Officials gave no immediate estimates of damage. Strong shaking was also felt across northern India and Bangladesh. In the Indian capital of New Delhi, thousands of workers ran out of high rise buildings that were swaying. L.S. Rathore, head of the India Meteorological Department, said this quake was deeper than the one that struck in April. Deeper quakes generally cause less destructio n, but Rathore said Tuesday’s jolt had the potential to cause damage, because structures that have were weakened by the previous earthquake could become even more vulnerable after the latest one. Across the Nepalese border in Tibet's Jilong and Zhangmu regions, the Earth shook strongly. Tremors were also felt slightly in the Tibetan capital, Lhasa.
6661.txt:Nepal's parliament was in session when the quake hit, prompting lawmakers to run to the nearest exits. Kathmandu's only international airport was closed for almost half an hour as people rushed onto city streets and away from toppling structures.
6666.txt:It forced the closure of Kathmandu's international airport, which has been the focus of aid efforts to help people affected by last month's earthquake.
6667.txt:It forced the closure of Kathmandu's international airport, which has been the focus of aid efforts to help people affected by last month's earthquake.
6675.txt:Work already had been slow because Nepal's airports and other infrastructure were ill-equipped to deal with a large influx of supplies.
6677.txt:The new quake has forced the closure of the Kathmandu airport, the Straits Times reports.
6677.txt:"The airport is closed for operations right now," Birendra Prasad Shrestha, manager at Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport, told AFP.
6683.txt:“We will continue to stay in the tent but it's wet here and the rain came into the tent, which we are sharing with 24 people. “Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport, the main entry point for flights bringing in aid, was briefly closed again Tuesday as a precaution but reopened after a couple of hours.
6685.txt:The airport has been closed more than 50 miles away in Kathmandu.
6688.txt:The international airport in Kathmandu, which was closed after the powerful quake hit, resumed operations, Flightradar24 wrote on its Twitter account.
6690.txt:Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport, the main entry point for flights bringing in aid, was briefly closed again Tuesday as a precaution but reopened after a couple of hours.
6699.txt:The charity said it had faced lengthy delays getting supplies into Kathmandu airport due to limited capacity, and the airport's temporary closure would cause further delays.
6702.txt:“I tore the wires with my teeth,” Aliani told Channel 2. The television station showed footage of him standing outside with his daughter, still wearing a blue hospital smock.“Get us out of here!” he said to the television cameras.Magen David Adom is working to fly home four premature Israeli babies and their parents, who were caught in a 7.3 magnitude earthquake in Nepal on Tuesday.When the earth shook, Israelis Yoav Aliani and his partner, Moran Ben- Dror, were in a hospital in Kathmandu with their tiny twins, who were hooked up to machines.“I tore the wires with my teeth,” Aliani told Channel 2. The television station showed footage of him standing outside with his daughter, still wearing a blue hospital smock.“Get us out of here!” he said to the television cameras.According to the Foreign Ministry, none of some 100 Israelis who are in Nepal was injured by the quake, which has so far claimed 66 lives.Tuesday’s quake follows a larger April 25 earthquake, in which more than 8,000 people were killed.The parents of the four premature babies had wanted to leave Nepal before the birth but were unable to do so, because the surrogate mothers lacked travel documents.Providing them with such documents proved to be overly difficult on such short notice.MDA spokesman Zaki Heller said that his organization would fly the babies out as soon as it could secure an airplane. One of the babies has to be brought home in an incubator, he said.On Tuesday morning in Israel, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu greeted the returning IDF Nepal delegation, which landed at Ben-Gurion Airport just after the second earthquake struck the Himalayan state.The prime minister suggested there may be a need for the delegation to return to Nepal in the coming days, in the aftermath of the second quake.“I am certain that you are already prepared for your next mission, wherever that may be, and according to the news the next mission may already be upon us. I said to the ambassador from Nepal a few minutes ago that we are ready to help with all our capabilities even now,” he said. “The world is gradually learning they have someone to count on.”Netanyahu spoke of the accomplishments of the delegation.“You helped 1,600 wounded people and brought new life with at least eight births.You have shown the true face of Israel– a country that values life.”The ceremony was attended by Defense Minister Moshe Ya’alon, IDF Chief of Staff Gadi Eisenkot and Nepal Ambassador Prahlad Kumar Prasai.On Tuesday night the ministry said that no plans and been made to send another Israeli delegation to Nepal.Rabbi Chezky Lifshitz, co-director of the Chabad in Nepal, wrote on his Facebook page on Tuesday night that dozens of Israelis were sitting with him, outside the Chabad house, trying to relax after the earthquake.They had sleeping bags and have moved the sofas outside, he said, and added that people were preparing to sleep outdoors.“There are still people confused and wounded on the streets,” he said.Once again, he said, he was witnessing the now familiar sight of hundreds of people seeking a safe place to sleep at night.He said that Chabad was offering warm meals to whoever needed them.Following the earthquake Tuesday, Israeli-based humanitarian aid agency IsraAID released a statement in which its head of mission stated that phones were down in Kathmandu and people were outside, afraid to come indoors.“I am worried for vulnerable neighborhoods like Gongabu, where our search and rescue team rescued Krishnadevi last week. The houses there are not sturdy, and many were damaged by the earthquake.We are on the way there now,” said Yotam Polizer, IsraAID’s head of mission on the ground in Nepal.IsraAID, an Israeli-based humanitarian aid agency, currently has medical and psychosocial teams on the ground and is distributing goods in Nepal, in coordination with the Nepalese government, UN agencies, and NGOs.Reuters contributed to this report.
6708.txt:He says the advantage of the trust's existing relationship with Sahodar is that supplies from local sources can be sent in quickly, rather than sitting around at Kathmandu Airport to be processed.
6732.txt:Infrastructure and contingency planning: Given the difficulty of road construction in Nepal and the potential for roads getting damaged during natural disasters, should Nepal build helipads throughout the country? Should Nepal also acquire a large fleet of helicopters for transportation as well as disaster relief? What should Nepal do for disaster-contingency planning? Should Nepal build more international airports scattered across the country? Should Nepal also build major hospitals, crisis centres, as well as information and power grids in different parts of the country? How feasible are such goals?
6746.txt:Within an hour of Modi's meeting, the Indian Air Force got into action. A C-130 J Super Hercules aircraft flew 45 personnel from the National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) located at Ghaziabad on the outskirts of Delhi and landed at the Kathmandu airport around 5:30 pm. This team of rescuers was followed by another six on the same day and nine more in the subsequent days."At the airport we were received by the Indian Ambassador who briefed us about the situation and told us about the dos and don'ts," says P K Srivastav, the commander of the NDRF teams, who reached Kathmandu at around 7 pm.Srivastav, along with his team of 1,145 personnel, looks after an area of 250,000 square km in Uttar Pradesh, Uttrakhand, Delhi and Haryana in case of any manmade or natural disaster. Though he had taken part in several rescue operations in the past, Srivastav says he had never seen such faultless movement of personnel as on that day."This operation was even bigger than during the Uttarakhand deluge in June 2013. At that time we had faced a lot of difficulties getting the aircraft on time. Ever since the Modi government took over a year ago, we find aircraft are readily available to us," he adds.At the Kathmandu airport, the Nepalese army took the NDRF teams directly to the affected areas in the capital city. The teams were pressed into service right away. They worked through the night and rescued six people alive from the rubble. Their food and accommodation were arranged later.Back in India, a nodal desk was set up in the cabinet secretariat for the entire search, relief and rescue operations in Nepal. The external affairs ministry was entrusted with the responsibility of coordinating efforts outside India, while the home ministry was asked to work with all the government departments, ministries and non-profit agencies within India.On the evening of the tragedy, Army chief General Dalbir Singh Suhag, a Gorkha Rifles officer, established contact with his counterpart in Nepal, General Gaurav Shumsher Jung Bahadur Rana, and offered to send two senior Gorkha officers to Nepal along with people from medical and engineers corps. Five helicopters from the Army's aviation wing were also dispatched under the overall command of Major General J S Sandhu."India and Nepal share a unique relationship. General Suhag is the honorary chief of the Nepal Army, and General Rana is the honorary chief of the Indian Army. Besides we have 125,000 ex-servicemen in Nepal and around 38,000 serving Gorkhas in the force," says Indian army spokesperson Col Rohan Anand.In Nepal, work for every Indian contingent was cut out. While the NDRF teams mostly worked in and around Kathmandu, clearing the debris, the army reached the far flung areas to rescue people and established makeshift hospitals and inhabitations. The aviation wing set up its base in Pokhra, as the Kathmandu airport had got overcrowded. The army choppers had taken around 747 sorties till May 10.The Indian Air Force positioned six medium-range helicopters at Kathmandu and two at Pokhra. Its role was to bring relief material and evacuate Nepalese and stranded foreign nationals from the remote locations. Till May 5, the Air Force had undertaken 569 sorties and ferried 746 tonnes of relief material. It also evacuated 2,012 persons and recovered 619 bodies."It was one of the biggest humanitarian relief operations undertaken by the Indian government on foreign soil. Our teams worked according to the requirement of the Nepal army which was leading the humanitarian operations," says Sithansu Kar, defence ministry spokesperson.Kar says besides the pivotal role of the armed forces and NDRF personnel in Nepal, social media played a huge role in reaching out to those areas where relief was yet to reach. Kar deployed a team of three photographers who would send him pictures daily from Nepal through the returning Air Force flights. "I would tweet these pictures and it made a huge impact. I used to get immediate messages from the families of those who were stranded in the valley and were still out of reach," he says.In Delhi, Modi and his senior cabinet ministers reviewed the Nepal situation daily for the first three days. National Security Advisor Ajit Doval was sent to see the situation on the ground. The foreign secretary, defence secretary and home secretary were tasked with briefing the media daily about the developments in Nepal."During one such meeting, it was decided to open the road and rail network to Nepal as the aid through air was proving expensive. Ferrying a water bottle was costing the exchequer five times its cost price," says a government official directly involved in the relief and coordination operation. Thus, senior officers were deployed at the Old Delhi Railway Station. The trains carried material to Raxual in Bihar from where it was loaded on trucks and sent to Nepal.In the meantime, the NDRF teams managed to pull out more people alive. Of the 16 people rescued in the worst affected parts of Kathmandu, the so-called ground zero, 11 lives were saved by the Indian teams."This was despite 50 teams from 32 nations working side by side with us on the ground. These teams included those from the US and the UK and had much better equipment then us. Countries likes Oman and Sweden had come prepared with their land cruisers, Hummers and all-terrain vehicles. They directly drove in their vehicles to the affected sites," Srivastav says.He recalls an incident where Indian troops had pulled out the corpse of a Nepalese army officer who had died after a hotel collapsed in Gongabu. "The Chinese had failed as the site had become perilously unstable. But our boys did the job despite repetitive aftershocks and intermittent rains making it more difficult," he says.Did the Modi government swing into action to gain a strategic advantage? Many observers say, and some Nepalese leaders admit, public opinion in that country has swung in favour of India after Modi came to power. "The Modi government will get the credit for sure because he is in power. But India would and should have helped Nepal anyway," says Shiv Shankar Mukherjee, former Indian ambassador to Nepal. "The Nepalese people are grateful to India and it is in India's interest to ensure the well-being of its neighbour country."The Indian contingents won praise from the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs and various governments, but it could not avoid some negative publicity. A campaign was launched on social media, #GoHomeIndianMedia. The large Indian electronic media contingent was accused of being "insensitive" and "jingoistic" while covering the calamity. That took some shine off the work the Indian government had done."This was mainly the fault of the Indian media and some voluntary organisations which went to Nepal to help. They tried to undermine the authority of the Nepalese army, which is revered in the Himalayan valley, and rubbed the government authorities the wrong way. Already some sections of Nepal criticise India for interfering in their domestic issues," says a home ministry official who was on the ground.Perhaps this could be the reason India didn't show much enthusiasm when the earthquake hit the country again on May 12. Modi, instead of reaching out to Koirala, waited for his phone call for help.An earlier version of the article had referred to Nepal as a Himalayan kingdom. The error, which has since been rectified, is regretted
675.txt:Local hospitals were already filling with injured residents, and Kathmandu’s international airport was shut down, hampering initial relief efforts in the isolated mountainous country.
6761.txt:They waited for 72 hours further up the mountain at a Lodge in Namche Bazar before walking back down to Lukla Airport where they had started their adventure.
6761.txt:After two days of trekking, they arrived back at Lukla Airport where they had started their journey.
6762.txt:Finally, on April 28, we were on our way to the airport. We saw tents and temporary shelters lining the streets. Many homes were lost or damaged. Aftershocks had continued and people were afraid to return to homes that were still standing. Our luck continued, because after arriving home we read that the airport had been closed the following day because of runway damage.
6774.txt:The hospital's director Dr Swyam Prakash Pandit is also yet to see any money to compensate for the “free care,” he said was provided to more than 1500 victims. “Till now we have not got it,” Dr Pandit said, adding that he believed it would come eventually. Red tape has been widely blamed for slowing down aid. That entangling supplies at Nepal's only international airport in Kathmandu was cut away after the UN called for custom restrictions to be eased.
6780.txt:In the absence of a central coordination body, many international teams had to wait several days before they could be deployed. Similarly, tons of relief packages were stranded at the airport, with no mechanism to release them.
6783.txt:They both lived, but their 18-year old daughter, Churkela, suffered a different fate. She had gone to the forest to cut bamboo with six other girls from the village when the earthquake struck. As the seven of them ran away, Churkela slipped on a landslide. She was dragged downhill and died. Yug Gurung, a trained mountain guide, had just finished lunch at a café on a trekking trail several days’ walk away from his home in Laprak along with 11 trekking companions when the earthquake struck. They all headed toward Pokhara, a popular tourist destination a few hours from Gorkha and about a six-hour drive from Kathmandu, when he received a phone call from his brother-in-law in Riyadh. “Are you OK?” he asked. “Yes,” Yug replied. “Do you know what happened in the village?” “No.” “Your house fell down and your younger brother was killed.” Yug’s younger brother, Roshan, was 15 and had just finished sixth grade. His body was only found after three days. “God took away my brother,” he said. The earthquake killed more than 8,300 nationwide, making it one of the worst tragedies in the country’s history. In Laprak, 18 people died, half of them children. Subsequent aftershocks — there have been nearly 170 recorded since the big earthquake struck on April 25 — have made distributing aid and building shelters a challenging task. The earth’s crust showed no signs of resting. Prime Minister Sushil Koirala was in transit in Bangkok on his way back from Jakarta when the earthquake struck. He tried to return to Kathmandu, but was stranded since Nepal’s only international airport had been shut down. He later issued a statement saying that the government would provide relief to all Nepalis. Two weeks later, Koirala took a white helicopter formerly used by the king and landed at a makeshift helipad in Laprak. It was the first time Laprak’s residents ever saw a national leader. He reassured them that the government would slowly give each and every one relief aid, and then he flew away. “He was here for less than 30 minutes,” said Marsingh Gurung, a village elder who has put himself in charge of overseeing relief materials that come to Laprak. Since then, the Nepal army, which has one big helicopter, has worked with the Indian air force to ferry aid to Laprak, including sacks of rice, noodles, salt, beaten rice, biscuits, and lentils. It has not always gone smoothly — one day, the helicopter dropped all its supplies off in another village by mistake, so a group of villagers walked five hours to get there and returned with sacks of rice on their backs.
6789.txt:Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese police officers clear debris from Durbar Square in Kathmandu on Sunday, May 3. A magnitude-7.8 earthquake centered less than 50 miles from Kathmandu rocked Nepal with devastating force Saturday, April 25. The earthquake and its aftershocks have turned one of the world's most scenic regions into a panorama of devastation, killing and injuring thousands. Hide Caption 1 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured Nepalese woman is carried by villagers toward an Indian army helicopter to be airlifted from Philim village in Gorkha district in Nepal on May 3. Hide Caption 2 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Members of the Tsayana family warm themselves next to a fire outside their damaged house on May 3 in Bhaktapur, Nepal. Hide Caption 3 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A woman receives comfort during the funeral of her mother, a victim of Nepal's deadly earthquake, on Friday, May 1, in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 4 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Hindu priests perform rituals during the cremations of victims at the Pashupatinath Temple on the banks of the Bagmati River in Kathmandu on May 1. Hide Caption 5 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People await aid from an Indian army helicopter in front of damaged homes in Kulgaun, Nepal, on May 1. Hide Caption 6 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured woman gets carried on a stretcher at Kathmandu's airport after being evacuated from Melamchi, Nepal, on May 1. Hide Caption 7 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A member of the Los Angeles County Fire Department guides his sniffing dog through a collapsed building in Kathmandu on Thursday, April 30. Hide Caption 8 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A teenage boy gets rushed to a hospital April 30 after being rescued from the debris of a building in Kathmandu days after the earthquake. Hide Caption 9 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A man is freed from the ruins of a hotel by French rescuers in the Gangabu area of Kathmandu on Tuesday, April 28. Reuters identified the man as Rishi Khanal. Hide Caption 10 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese military police search through rubble outside Kathmandu on April 28. Hide Caption 11 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People rest April 28 in a temporary housing camp in Kathmandu. Large encampments of tents have sprung up in open areas, including a wide space belonging to the military in the center of the capital. Hide Caption 12 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A family collects belongings from their home in Bhaktapur, Nepal, on Monday, April 27. Hide Caption 13 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Damaged buildings lean to the side in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 14 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Hide Caption 15 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Members of the Nepalese army retrieve bodies from a collapsed building in Bhaktapur near Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 16 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded woman to a helicopter as they evacuate people from Trishuli Bazar, Nepal, on April 27. Hide Caption 17 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People charge their cell phones in an open area in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 18 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Emergency personnel evacuate an injured man to a waiting helicopter in Trishuli Bazar on April 27. Hide Caption 19 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An aerial view of the devastation in Kathmandu on April 27. The destruction in Nepal's capital is stark: revered temples reduced to rubble, people buried in the wreckage of their homes, hospitals short on medical supplies overflowing with patients. Hide Caption 20 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Residents rescue items from the debris of houses damaged in the quake in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 21 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An aervial view shows ruined buildings in Trishuli Bazar on April 27. Hide Caption 22 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A woman prays at a ruined temple in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 23 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People rest in temporary shelters in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 24 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Residents cycle over damaged roads on the outskirts of Kathmandu on Sunday, April 26. Hide Caption 25 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Four-month-old Sonit Awal is held up by Nepalese army soldiers after being rescued from the rubble of his house in Bhaktapur, Nepal, on April 26. Hide Caption 26 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The newspaper that provided photographs of the baby's rescue says the Nepalese army initially left the site, thinking the baby had not survived. Hours later when the infant's cries were heard, soldiers came back and rescued him. Hide Caption 27 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The newspaper adds the Nepalese Army had initially failed to rescue the baby and left the site thinking the baby had not survived. Hours later when the baby's cries were heard the army came back and rescued him. Hide Caption 28 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A woman cries after identifying the body of a relative in Bhaktapur on April 26. Hide Caption 29 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Men clear debris in Bhaktapur on April 26. Hide Caption 30 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A truck evacuates residents from Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 31 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A Buddha statue is surrounded by debris on April 26 from a collapsed temple in the UNESCO world heritage site of Bhaktapur. Hide Caption 32 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An elderly woman is helped to her home after being treated for her injuries in Bhaktapur on April 26. Hide Caption 33 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Family members break down on April 26 during the cremation of a loved one killed in Bhaktapur. Hide Caption 34 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Smoke from funeral pyres fills the air at the Pashupatinath temple on the banks of Bagmati River in Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 35 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Members of India's National Disaster Response Force look for survivors in Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 36 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescue workers remove debris on April 26 as they search for victims in Bhaktapur. Hide Caption 37 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People look at the debris of one of the oldest temples in Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 38 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People sleep on a street in Kathmandu, Nepal, on Saturday, April 25. A seemingly endless series of aftershocks continued to roil the area, further traumatizing survivors. Hide Caption 39 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Civilian rescuers carry a person on a stretcher in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 40 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People try to free a man from the rubble in Kathmandu on April 25. Cheers rose from the piles when people were found alive -- but mostly bodies turned up. Hide Caption 41 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Pedestrians walk past collapsed buildings in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 42 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Azim Afif, of the Universiti Teknologi Malaysia climbing team, provided this photo of their Mount Everest base camp after it was ravaged by an avalanche triggered by the earthquake on April 25. All of Afif's five-member team survived. Hide Caption 43 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescuers clear rubble in Kathmandu's Basantapur Durbar Square on April 25. Hide Caption 44 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A temple on Hanumandhoka Durbar Square lies in ruins after an earthquake in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 45 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Dharahara, a tower dating back to 1832 that rose more than 60 meters (200 feet) and provided breathtaking views of Kathmandu and the surrounding Himalayas, collapsed in the earthquake on April 25. Hide Caption 46 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The hand of a statue is seen under debris in Basantapur Durbar Square in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 47 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese man and woman hold each other in Kathmandu's Basantapur Durbar Square on April 25. Hide Caption 48 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A victim of Nepal's earthquake lies in the debris of Dharahara after it collapsed on April 25 in Kathmandu, Nepal. Hide Caption 49 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescuers look for victims under a collapsed building in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 50 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Volunteers carry a body recovered from the debris of a collapsed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 51 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A victim's body is seen in the debris of the collapsed Dharahara on April 25. Hide Caption 52 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Emergency rescue workers carry a victim from Dharahara after the tower in Kathmandu collapsed on April 25. Hide Caption 53 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People free a man from the rubble of a destroyed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 54 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A man walks past a collapsed temple at Basantapur Durbar Square. Hide Caption 55 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescue workers clear debris in Kathmandu while searching for survivors. Hide Caption 56 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People huddle together outside a hospital in Kathmandu. Eyewitnesses said residents were scared and waiting for aftershocks to end. Hide Caption 57 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People search for survivors stuck under the rubble of a destroyed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 58 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Injured people receive treatment in Kathmandu. A CNN reporter said medics were focused on treating the most severely injured. Hide Caption 59 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Emergency rescue workers search for survivors in the debris of Dharahara on April 25. Hide Caption 60 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured child lies on the ground outside a hospital in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 61 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People help with rescue efforts at the site of a collapsed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 62 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured child receives treatment outside Medicare Hospital in Kathmandu on April 25. Residents, after a relentless series of aftershocks, have been remaining outdoors. Hide Caption 63 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The rubble of collapsed walls fills a street in Lalitpur, on the outskirts of Kathmandu, on April 25. Hide Caption 64 of 64
6793.txt:Nepal Army under fire after generals receive Sonakshi, Malaika at airport
6793.txt:Kathmandu, May 15 (IANS) The Nepal Army found itself under fire after media reports on Sunday that top officers turned up in uniform at the airport to receive Bollywood actresses Sonakshi Sinha and Malaika Arora led to a flood of complaints and led the government to demand an explanation.
6793.txt:The Kantipur daily on Sunday reported that Gen. Samir Shai was at the Tribhuvan International Airport on Friday to receive Sonakshi while other senior army officials received Malaika and held such acts will "demoralize" the army and "reduce its prestige."
6803.txt:Alwi and his team, as part of the Malaysia Umno Welfare Bureau and the 1Malaysia Putera Club (KP1M) Humanitarian Aid Mission arrived at Kuala Lumpur International Airport from Kathmandu at around 7 pm yesterday after being there for a week.
6807.txt:“We have told the ministries to prepare programmes with allocation of as much as half of the capital budget for reconstruction and rehabilitation,” said Adhikari, who has been overseeing budget affairs at NPC. “The new budget’s priority will be rehabilitation, reconstruction and new construction and construction of new alternative international airports and hydropower projects.” The tremors have damaged 288,798 houses of the general public fully, while 254,112 houses have been partially destroyed. A total of 10,790 government buildings have been damaged completely, while 14,997 have been partially damaged, according to the Home Ministry.
680.txt:Kathmandu's airport has reopened and supplies, doctors and relief workers have begun arriving.
6811.txt:The RAF Chinook helicopters were sent two weeks ago to Delhi, India, in a transport plane, and await clearance from Nepal's government at the Delhi airport, the British government's Department for International Development (DfID) said. The government believes the heavy aircraft's downdraft could damage fragile buildings and could cause roof collapses simply by taking off and landing, although other countries have contributed helicopters to help Nepal deal with a series of devastating earthquakes, beginning April 25, which have killed over 8,000 people.
6811.txt:The helicopters' flight crews and maintenance technicians, a group of about 40, also remain at the airport in India. The cost of keeping the aircraft and crew idle prompted the British government to arrange talks with Nepalese authorities over the restriction in the next few days.
681.txt:Most areas were without power and water today, but with Kathamandu airport reopened, first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. Workers were sending out tents and relief goods in trucks and helicopters, said disaster management official Rameshwar Dangal.
6828.txt:The airport swelled with chaos as the streets fell eerily quiet. Seemingly overnight, Kathmandu, a city of 2 million, shrunk to a quarter of its size as residents fled. Aid workers spilled off planes and clamored around luggage carousels, while in the city locals huddled, afraid to re-enter their homes. “There was this palpable fear wherever you went,” says emergency medical technician Dave Mansfield. “It was more than anywhere else I’ve been—in the Philippines or even Haiti—there was just this dread hanging over them.”
683.txt:With Kathmandu airport reopened, the first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. The first to respond were Nepal’s neighbors — India, China and Pakistan, all of which have been jockeying for influence over the landlocked nation. Still, Nepal, the world’s only Hindu nation, remains closest to India with which it shares deep political, cultural and religious ties.
6840.txt:Kathmandu airport resumes operations
6840.txt:Flights are landing and taking off from Kathmandu Airport again after earlier closure due to earthquake pic.twitter.com/kBdWg7Qg0J — Flightradar24 (@flightradar24) May 12, 2015
6840.txt:Kathmandu Airport shut after earthquake
6843.txt:The quake also caused a spasm of chaos at Kathmandu’s airport, where Channel NewsAsia reporter Jack Board filmed hundreds of people running from the building as the ground rumbled
6843.txt:People in Lukla, a town that serves as a gateway to the Mount Everest region, rushed to the airport so they could be in an open area as the earth shook again. Most of Lukla’s buildings are perched precariously on hilly ground.
6843.txt:The airport is in a risky setting because of the short runway that’s surrounded by mountains.
6845.txt:On the very morning of the second quake, the Israel Defense Forces delegation that had been sent to Nepal in April returned home and was welcomed at Ben Gurion Airport by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. — jta
6848.txt:Latest we heard from him though was from Namche Bazaar yesterday, where Johan has been since the first earthquake weeks ago. Right from the start Johan reported severe damage in many of the small settlements and villages dotting the picturesque trekking path between Lukhla airport and Everest base camp: "New quakes right now," he told us April 26th, "Namche is being evacuated and is partly demolished. So is Tengboche and almost all villages. We live in tents above Namche and are trying to help injured."
6866.txt:A UH-1Y Huey helicopter flies into the Tribhuvan International Airport after a search and rescue operation in Kathmandu, Nepal, May 13, 2015. REUTERS/Thor J. Larson/U.S. Marine Corps/Handout
6869.txt:Speaking exclusively to the Gazette hours after landing at Stansted Airport, the former Angmering School student, said: “I feel quite guilty about leaving to come to my home knowing that there’s a lot of people in Nepal left without one. But I was relieved.”
6875.txt:- With the safe return of Celia and Rick Wilcox, relief efforts for Nepal with a decidedly strong connection to the Mount Washington Valley were well underway Tuesday.During the 7.8 magnitude earthquake on April 25 that killed approximately 8,000 people and leveled many buildings in the land-locked nation at the top of the world, Wilcoxes, who are mountain guides and co-owners of International Mountain Equipment, were in the midst of leading three clients, accompanied by 10 native guides and porters, on a 22-day trek through the Himalaya Mountains. The trek was originally intended to include a stop at the Mount Everest Base Camp.The side trip to the base camp - where 18 people died in avalanches triggered by the earthquake - was abandoned, but the trekkers nonetheless continued on their preplanned route, reaching Kathmandu without incident. From there, they flew back to the U.S., right on schedule for their May 8 return.On Tuesday, the Wilcoxes were back at the IME offices, fielding calls from concerned friends, colleagues and contractors. In between the calls and drop-in visitors, they devised a plan to help the Nepal community of Khumjung, home to the Sherpa guides they've worked for some 30 years.At the same time, Tsering Sherpa, a Nepal native and resident of North Conway, and Candy Chaplin of Bartlett, president of the Nepal Children's Health and Education Foundation (NCHEF), launched a relief effort of their own.While Sherpa focused on her hometown of Namche Bazaar, where a school and a dentist's office were destroyed in the original earthquake, Chaplin was concentrating on the villages of Bung and Chheskam, where a school was also damaged. In March, Chaplin led 16 students and two parent doctors from the Derryfield School to the towns where they volunteered at a regional health clinic.Celia Wilcox thanked everyone who kept her and Rick in their prayers, noting that 'those prayers were answered ahead of time,' because thanks to careful planning, the IME trekkers were entirely self-reliant, and, when the April 25th earthquake hit, they found themselves in a wide valley that effectively shielded them from both avalanches and rock slides.She corrected early media reports that the IME group lost its possessions when the Hotel Thamel in Kathmandu collapsed - the hotel turned out to be fine - and that the international airport at Kathmandu was shut down because it was damaged and clogged with international aid that wasn't getting to its ultimate destination.Sherpa, whose father, Tsedam, is a close friend of the Wilcoxes and operates a mountaineering store in Nepal, said she and a fellow Fryeburg Academy graduate are hoping to get manufacturers and retailers to donate tents, which would be sent to her homeland.Rick and Celia Wilcox, for their part, are in the early stages of launching a nonprofit to channel monetary donations directly to community leaders in Nepal for rebuilding projects in Khumjung and perhaps Namche Bazaar, too.Tax-deductible donations may be made right now, however, to the NCHEF, where the money would be used to pay for the repair or construction of schools, and for covering the tuition of the three children of a porter who was killed on April 25.Chaplin said she expects to spend a lot of time on the phone to determine what damage was caused by the aftershock.The Wilcoxes added that in addition to supporting one of the several ongoing Nepal relief efforts, the many people who’ve trekked there in recent years should reach out to any local contacts they’ve made and help the country’s recovery by person-to-person assistance.Another way to help, said Celia, would be for people to go on another trek “and leave lots of cash.” jkoziol@newstote.com
6878.txt:“We will continue to stay in the tent but it's wet here and the rain came into the tent, which we are sharing with 24 people. “Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport, the main entry point for flights bringing in aid, was briefly closed again Tuesday as a precaution but reopened after a couple of hours.
687.txt:A boy looks through a hole in a tent in Kathmandu on Sunday. (Reuters) Kathmandu, April 26: The first rescue plane carrying people injured in Saturday's earthquake-triggered avalanche that swept through the Mount Everest base camp landed in Kathmandu around noon today, shortly before a strong aftershock rocked India and Nepal and triggered more snowfalls. None of the survivors appeared to have life-threatening injuries. Nepal's worst quake in 81 years, at 7.9 magnitude, killed over 2,400 people, including at least 18 climbers, as the avalanche obliterated part of the base camp. Many climbers were still on the mountain but there were no immediate reports of more casualties after today's tremors, felt as far away as Delhi, triggered a new series of avalanches. The plane carrying 15 injured people arrived in the Nepalese capital from Lukla, home to the closest airport to Mount Everest. Officials refused to provide details on their conditions, but most appeared to have broken bones or other treatable injuries. Among those evacuated, 12 were Nepalese Sherpas. There was also one person each from China, South Korea and Japan. Several of the injured had bandages on their heads, one spotted with blood and all were able to walk. Tourism ministry officials estimate that at least 1,000 climbers, including around 400 foreigners, had been at the base camp or on the ascent to the peak when the quake struck. Pemba Sherpa, a 43-year-old guide with the right side of his face bandaged, was surprised he had survived. He had rushed from his tent when the earthquake had struck yesterday and was standing in the open when he heard a big noise. "The next thing I know I was swept away by the snow. I must have been swept almost 200 metres," he said after being taken to Kathmandu Medical College Hospital. Among those rescued was Nick Talbot, 39, who was attempting to be the first person with cystic fibrosis to climb Everest when a 100 to 200-yard wall of ice and snow came barrelling toward him. "I thought, 'There is no chance I can get away.' I just had my socks on. It knocked me into the rocks. I got up and it knocked me over again," he said. Talbot returned without anything but the clothes he wore. All his belongings, including his money, were buried by the avalanche. A British climber described how huge boulders had come crashing down towards him. "The blocks coming down from the mountains were huge," said Sean James, 44, a mountain guide from Sheffield, who was reading in his tent at the base camp when the quake struck at 11.56am local time. "You don't know if they're going to hit you. It was unreal. We didn't know when it was going to stop. "It was like being on a boat. A few of the Brits had never seen this kind of thing before. They were very scared. The Sherpas too - they were grabbing each other and hugging."#Earlier, in the morning, helicopters evacuated the injured to a lower altitude, from where they were being flown to Kathmandu. "All badly injured heli evacuated," Romanian climber Alex Gavan, who was at the base camp, posted on Twitter. REUTERS, AP AND THE SUNDAY TIMES, LONDON
6882.txt:The humanitarian situation in the Himalaya region since the last earthquake is still difficult, he said further adding that the only international airport of the country in Kathmandu is overloaded and many roads are blocked due to the climatic situation. Bringing the aid to all the different regions in this hardly accessible country is very difficult even though the Nepalese government does their best, Messfeldar said
6884.txt:NAVESH CHITRAKAR / Reuters Soldiers carry an earthquake victim towards the ambulance after being airlifted from Sindhupalchok District at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu on Wednesday.
6886.txt:Kathmandu’s tiny airport is being overwhelmed by relief flights backing up on the tarmac. Image credit: AP/Altaf Qadri
6886.txt:In a tiny glimmer of good news, the airport didn’t liquefy as expected. Liquefaction happens when loose, saturated soils are shaken, reducing the material to the geological equivalent of oatmeal. Unfortunately, the airport logistics were quickly overwhelmed, leading to incoming aid-flights either circling for hours waiting for a landing spot, or even turning back without landing. You can check the current distribution of flights here.
6898.txt:Dindu Tamang, 43, a lodge owner in Langtang, a northern Nepalese village close to the border, had been stranded in his village for 14 days after the 7.9-magnitude quake that struck on April 25, until Wednesday afternoon, when he, together with 14 fellow villagers, were airlifted to Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport.
6902.txt:'The international community's response to the earthquake has faced a number of challenges, ranging from accessing harder to reach rural areas to logistical difficulties of bringing needed commodities into the country. Nepal is serviced by one small airport in Kathmandu that has been overwhelmed and damaged by large, incoming cargo[...]
6910.txt:Amazingly this was not the first time Sir Brian had escaped death in Nepal. On his only other visit to the country he was due to be on a flight which crash landed at the notoriously dangerous Lukla Airport high in the mountains, killing everyone on board. His flight was only switched at the last minute.
6914.txt:As search and rescue operations were gradually focused on post- quake reconstruction and the Himalayan country's only international airport remained packed with cargo and passenger aircraft, government statistics showed that as of Saturday, the 7.9-magnitude quake that caused extensive devastation has claimed nearly 8,000 lives and injured over 17,800 people.
6915.txt:As search and rescue operations were gradually focused on post- quake reconstruction and the Himalayan country's only international airport remained packed with cargo and passenger aircraft, government statistics showed that as of Saturday, the 7. 9-magnitude quake that caused extensive devastation has claimed nearly 8,000 lives and injured over 17,800 people.
691.txt:Damage to roads and the airport also means that getting relief and aid to these communities is also going to pose a great logistical challenge, added Mr William.
6923.txt:There were emotional scenes as the personnel arrived at Changi Airport.
6924.txt:There were emotional scenes as the personnel arrived at Changi Airport.
6929.txt:"Krishna told me she remembered everything and was so grateful to our rescue team led by Eran Magen as well as the Israeli hospital staff," said Yotamm Polizer.Krishna Devi Khadka attributed her survival to the IsraAID team rescue efforts that lead to her being pulled from the rubble followed by intensive medical care at the IDF field hospital.Krishna's recovery process will take months and IsraAID will continue to support Krishna, her family and thousands of others affected by the earthquake.In terms of manpower, Israel operated the largest humanitarian presence in Nepal, with over 250 doctors and rescue personnel working around the clock to locate, treat and ensure the safety of an almost equal number of Israelis (and others) that were unaccounted for at the outset of the disaster.According to an IDF statement, a flight carrying personnel belonging to the IDF's Home Front Command is scheduled to land at Ben Gurion airport on Sunday at approximately 2:30 p.m. on return from Nepal.
6938.txt:Members of the contingent were received by Minister in the Prime Minister’s Office and Second Minister for Home Affairs Masagos Zulkifli at Changi Airport at 11.35pm.
693.txt:The 7.8-magnitude earthquake occurred near the capital Kathmandu and has killed more than 1,800 people. Mr Benjamin William, secretary general of the Singapore Red Cross, said: "According to our Red Cross responders on the ground, strong aftershocks continue to be felt adding to the risk of further damage to buildings, many are living in fear unable to return to their homes. Damage to roads and the airport means that getting relief and aid to these communities is also going to pose a great logistical challenge."
6940.txt:Runway damage has forced Nepalese authorities to close that country’s main airport to large planes that have been bringing in aid supplies, food, medicine and rescue and humanitarian workers.
6940.txt:That airport, located outside Kathmandu, is Nepal’s only airport capable of handling jetliners.
6940.txt:“They just have one international airport there,” she said.
6951.txt:She had flown into Kathmandu on the night of Thursday, April 23 and went on to the mountain airport in Lukla before hiking to Namche, a village.
6951.txt:The plan of action was a conundrum for Sharna. She was two days from the nearest airport and five days from the nearest road.
6951.txt:There was no estimate on how long the aftershocks would continue, or how serious they would be. And she knew it would be bedlam, the closer she got to the airport.
695.txt:Pushpa Das, a Kathmandu labourer, was injured when a wall collapsed on him as he ran from his house. “It was very scary. The earth was moving,” he told reporters as he waited for treatment outside one hospital. As he spoke, dozens more showed up with injuries, mostly from falling bricks. Kathmandu’s international airport was shut down.
6960.txt:After returning to Lukla airport and being looked after by the locals, the couple were flown back to Kathmandu on Saturday.
6966.txt:Photo By Tech. Sgt. Melissa White | A Civil Aviation Authority Nepal member and U.S. Air Force 36th Contingency Response...... read more read more Photo By Tech. Sgt. Melissa White | A Civil Aviation Authority Nepal member and U.S. Air Force 36th Contingency Response Group Airmen attached to Joint Task Force 505 conduct a physical assessment of the runway at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, May 10. The Nepalese officials and Airmen plan to continue doing daily visual assessments to ensure the integrity of the runway remains intact and to identify any additional repairs if necessary after it sustained damage following a magnitude 7.8 earthquake that struck the nation April 25. In response to the Nepal earthquake, the U.S. military sent Airmen, Marines, Soldiers and Sailors as part of JTF 505 to support the humanitarian assistance and disaster relief mission in Nepal at the direction of U.S. Agency for International Development.(U.S. Air Force photo by Staff Sgt. Melissa B. White/Released) see less | View Image Page
6966.txt:KATHMANDU, Nepal – Nepalese officials and U.S. Air Force Airmen worked together to repair the runway at the Tribhuvan International Airport here May 9-10.
6966.txt:“The repairs will allow the continued throughput of humanitarian aid and relief supplies by ultimately preserving the life of the single international airport in Nepal,” said U.S. Air Force Capt. Ryan White, 36th CRG airfield operations. “This airfield is Nepal’s lifeline for relief supplies and for international travel, so these repairs will help the airfield keep pace with the aid coming in so the Government of Nepal can keep getting assistance to the people who need it.”
6966.txt:During the dark of the nights when operations ceased at the airport, four Airmen joined the six-man Nepalese team to conduct the repairs.
6966.txt:Within one to three hours of completing the repairs, the runway was operational again – just in time for the airport to open up and receive morning flights and thousands of pounds of relief supplies.
6969.txt:The 19-member medical emergency response team arrived back at Suvarnabhumi Airport on Saturday, following their fruitful humanitarian mission that started on April 29.
6970.txt:https://www.dvidshub.net/news/162830/operation-sahayogi-haat-airport-operations-numbers
6970.txt:Operation Sahayogi Haat Airport Operations by the numbers
6970.txt:Photo By Tech. Sgt. Melissa White | Tech. Sgt. Derrick McCall, 36th Mobility Response Squadron ramp coordinator, guides an...... read more read more Photo By Tech. Sgt. Melissa White | Tech. Sgt. Derrick McCall, 36th Mobility Response Squadron ramp coordinator, guides an Airman offloading relief supplies from a Bangladesh Air Force C-130 Hercules May 7, 2015, at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal. The Nepalese Army and Airmen worked with military members from the Bangladesh Air Force and Indian Air Force to process cargo from their aircraft arriving in Nepal to provide disaster relief following a magnitude 7.8 earthquake that struck the nation April 25. (U.S. Air Force photo by Staff Sgt. Melissa White/Released) see less | View Image Page
6970.txt:KATHMANDU, Nepal - The 36th Contingency Response Group, under Joint Task Force 505, has been supporting Operation Sahayogi Haat at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal since May 5.
6974.txt:As for incoming relief, I saw heavy traffic congestion at the airport. Commercial flights have been diverted to India. The PAF C130 E I came on circled for a good 90 minutes before it was allowed to land.
6974.txt:The airport is still congested; civilian flights are not being given priority; the one runway doesn’t have the capacity to process outgoing flights, as aid lands.
6974.txt:“I need helis, birds, anything that can fly. I have doctors sitting at the airport, and I don’t know what to do with them.”
6974.txt:Note from the tarmac, Airport Triage Centre
697.txt:India mobilised quickly as the first responder. Its rescue teams and materials were ready to fly within four hours of the tragedy. The first of its C-130 aircraft landed with relief supplies at the Tribhuvan International Airport within seven hours. MI-17 helicopters were deployed the following morning. This prompt effort will have to be sustained.
6998.txt:They had anticipated having a hard time being able to leave Nepal after the quake, but they were able to fly out of Kathmandu during a “small window” when the airport was operational, and they are now back in Connecticut.
7006.txt:I have managed disaster responses since 2001, but this has been particularly difficult because the Nepalese authorities are overwhelmed by the sheer scale of the disaster. The airport is very small and it has taken much longer than normal to get things moving. We have managed to distribute food to over 5,000 people, and tents for over 4,000 people have arrived in Nepal.
7018.txt:The firefighters finally arrived in Nepal around 10 a.m. Tuesday (Vancouver time), said New Westminster resident Jacqueline Dairon whose husband, Burnaby firefighter Brad Dairon, called to let her know they'd made it to the Kathmandu airport.
701.txt:http://www.dailymail.co.uk/travel/travel_news/article-3055998/Foreign-Office-tells-Britons-stranded-Nepal-follow-local-authorities-advice-following-earthquake-left-thousands-dead-huge-numbers-people-assemble-Kathmandu-airport.html
701.txt:Around 1,000 tourists have amassed at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu in the hope of getting out of Nepal following the earthquake
701.txt:Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu has re-opened following the disaster, but with over a thousand people queuing overnight, the journey out of Nepal will be problematic for tourists.
701.txt:NDTV reports that a queue 'perhaps a kilometre long' has grown outside Nepal's only international airport, with many families having to go without food and water in the hope of leaving the country.
701.txt:'However, Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport (TIA) may be unusable following a large-scale earthquake, as will Nepal’s road network. It could take some days for it to become operational.'
701.txt:Nepalese rescue members and onlookers gather at the collapsed Darahara Tower in Kathmandu; tourists are now making their way to Tribhuvan International Airport in the hope of avoiding another disaster
7021.txt:Kathmandu’s airport, the main entry point for flights bringing in aid, was briefly closed after Tuesday’s quake.
7025.txt:Photo By Sgt. Mandaline Hatch | Cpl. Mackenzie Higgins guides a UH-1Y Huey for takeoff at the Tribhuvan International...... read more read more Photo By Sgt. Mandaline Hatch | Cpl. Mackenzie Higgins guides a UH-1Y Huey for takeoff at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, May 5. Marines with Marine Light Attack Helicopter Squadron 469 and Marine Medium Tilt Rotor Squadron 262 carried supplies in a UH-1Y Huey and MV-22 Ospreys to Charikot, Nepal. The supplies will provide Nepalese people with shelter after a 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck central Nepal, April 25, causing fatalities, injuries and significant damage. The government of Nepal declared a state of emergency and requested international assistance. The U.S. military, at the direction of the U.S. Agency for International Development, will continue to support Nepal as needed. HMLA-469 and VMM-262 are attached to Marine Aircraft Group 36, 1st Marine Aircraft Wing, III Marine Expeditionary Force. Higgins is a UH-1Y crew chief with HMLA-469 from Pala Way, California. (U.S. Marine Corps photo by Lance Cpl. Mandaline Hatch/Released) see less | View Image Page
703.txt:This group states that it has set up a relief hub at Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport to manage common services for the entire humanitarian response to Nepal's disaster, including logistics, information technology, and food transportation.
7045.txt:Dindu Tamang, 43, a lodge owner in Langtang, a northern Nepalese village close to the border, had been stranded in his village for 14 days after the 7.9-magnitude quake that struck on April 25, until Wednesday afternoon, when he, together with 14 fellow villagers, were airlifted to Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport.
7047.txt:The search continues for a United States Marine helicopter in rural Nepal that went missing just hours after Tuesday's massive, 7.3-magnitude earthquake The head of the U.S. military's joint task force in Nepal said the biggest challenge is the mountainous terrain where the UH-1 Huey may have touched down."It's just a matter of receiving the signal," said Maj. Gen. John Wissler. "Where they went down, whether it got damaged during the set-down process ... there are a number of reasons why those beacons and so forth would not operate."U.S. Marine and Air Force search teams were joined by ground troops from the Nepalese military. The search ended Wednesday night because of darkness and will resume at first light on Thursday.The helicopter was carrying six U.S. Marines and two Nepalese service members, and had been delivering humanitarian aid in Charikot, an area 50 miles east of Nepal's capital of Kathmandu, close to the epicenter of Tuesday's large earthquake.Wissler insisted the search for the missing helicopter is not detracting from the ongoing mission to help people affected by Tuesday's earthquake.He said he is not concerned that the U.S. military helicopter may be close to the Chinese border.Many countries, including China , have been cooperating in the relief efforts."Our sector is to the east of Kathmandu and extends up north, where the rescue and relief efforts are being coordinated by the Chinese," Wissler said.At Kathmandu's international airport, U.S. helicopters like the one that went missing continued shuttling patients from hard-hit rural areas.Forty-four people were airlifted Tuesday, and 15 others have been flown from the mountainous regions to the airport for immediate medical care, Air Force Col. Lee Anderson said.Anderson added that many of those patients suffered from a number of injuries."Mostly crush injures, broken bones, banged up, head injuries, lacerations," Anderson said.
7056.txt:I arrived at the Kathmandu airport on Monday and immediately joined relief efforts there. First I headed to the hospital near the airport, Kathmandu Medical Teaching Hospital. There, I assisted in distributing foods to individuals who were searching for loved ones still, hoping that they might show up at the hospital.
7058.txt:At Kathmandu Airport the international search and rescue effort continues for residents and the missing US Huey. pic.twitter.com/6gn6HTH2KF — Sergio Quintana (@svqjournalist) May 14, 2015
7059.txt:U.S. Navy Petty Officer 2nd Class Jessica Gomez-Hickman holds a young earthquake victim before placing her in an ambulance at a medical triage area at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, May 12, 2015. U.S. Marine Corps photo by Gunnery Sgt. Ricardo Morales
7059.txt:A U.S. Air Force airman helps an earthquake victim into an ambulance at a medical triage area at Tribhuvan International Airport, Kathmandu, Nepal. The airman is assigned to Joint Task Force 505, which is providing aid in Nepal.
7059.txt:U.S. Marines help a Nepalese man to a triage at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, May 13, 2015.
7059.txt:U.S. Marines prepare a UH-1Y Huey helicopter to begin a search and rescue mission from the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, May 13, 2015. A UH-1Y Huey assigned to Marine Light Attack Helicopter Squadron 469, carrying six Marines and two Nepalese soldiers, went missing while conducting humanitarian assistance after the 7.3 aftershock.
7059.txt:Lead photo: U.S. Navy Petty Officer 2nd Class Jessica Gomez-Hickman, from Joint Task Force 505, holds a young earthquake victim before loading her into an ambulance at a medical triage area at Tribhuvan International Airport, Kathmandu, Nepal. (U.S. Marine Corps photo by Gunnery Sgt. Ricardo Morales/Released)
705.txt:Charities assembled disaster teams but the most convenient pathway into Nepal was not available because the international airport in Kathmandu was shut down.
706.txt:The United States Geological Survey said the shallow quake struck 77 kilometres (48 miles) northwest of Kathmandu at 0611 GMT, with walls crumbling and families racing outside their homes. The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country's only international airport which was briefly closed. Kari Cuelenaere, an official at the Dutch embassy, said the impact had swept the water out of a swimming pool at a Kathmandu hotel where Dutch national day was being celebrated.
7070.txt:If all goes as planned, local globetrotter Stephane Chouinard will be back in Timmins by May 15 after surviving the earthquake that devastated Nepal late last month. His mother Edith Chouinard and a large group supporters plan to meet him at the airport and hold a large welcome back celebration.
7070.txt:“There will be like 30 people at the airport to greet him. It's a surprise; he doesn't know,” said Edith Chouinard. “We are also having a barbecue.”
7070.txt:Initially, he was heading for the airport in the Nepalese capital of Kathmandu, not knowing that it was shut down and was quickly becoming a refugee camp. Once warned that the airport was not the place to go, Stephane Chouinard and his group began walking to the airport in the city of Pokhara in order to catch a bus that would take them across the border into India.
7070.txt:Stephane Chouinard's flight is expected to arrive at the Timmins airport at 4:20 p.m. on May 15.
709.txt:His company officials were busy were collecting money to contribute to his journey home and for relief for his family. “We are looking at tickets through Jet Airways to Bagdogra, because we hear the Kathmandu airport is not fully functional.”
709.txt:Many of his Nepali friends are rushing to obtain plane tickets to fly home, though the Kathmandu Airport is currently closed.
7106.txt:Nepal’s government was struggling to co-ordinate the rescue and relief operation and the airport capacity was the limiting factor.
7107.txt:Like many other relief supply planes, the Polish plane had to stop in New Delhi for more than a day as the congested Kathmandu airport — 80 minutes of flying time from the Indian capital — was unable to handle the heavy rush of relief planes.
710.txt:Kathmandu's international airport remains open, but flights have been disrupted.
7113.txt:CHENGDU – The epicentre of the 7.9 magnitude earthquake was 80 km to the north-west, and everything swayed in the capital. Some older buildings crumbled. The tremors were felt 1,000km away in neighbouring countries. The airport was closed for a day, and then became the staging area for a massive relief operation. Highways were blocked by landslides, delaying emergency rescue and relief to the mountain villages. Up to 80 per cent of the buildings in poorer rural areas near the epicentre were destroyed, a UNESCO World Heritage Site was severely damaged. Strong aftershocks, some above 6 magnitude, kept hitting the area for weeks afterwards.
7122.txt:From behind a fence just beyond the landing strip, about 20 children stare at the marines as if they are candy behind a shop window. David Dequeljoe, of Guyton, Georgia, is prepared and heads over to the young group with chocolates he brought all the way from the airport in Kathmandu. As the Osprey takes off, he waves. The children, dressed in brightly colored Western-style clothing, like T-shirts and shorts for the boys and dresses or traditional saris for the girls, all with black hair and enormous smiles, wave and wave and wave until the Osprey is thousands of feet back in the air.
7122.txt:“I wish we could help even more,” the 24-year-old Dequeljoe said after arriving back at the base the marines have set up in a small corner of the airport in Kathmandu.
7122.txt:As of Friday, there are 322 U.S. forces in Nepal, and more could be on the way. Aside from the marines – who’ve been delivering food, plastic sheeting and other aid to villages throughout the country – there are also about 40 U.S. Air Force personnel based in another corner of the airport runway. Their purpose here is to make sure aid shipments are processed efficiently. After the backlog of shipments at the airport frustrated aid workers earlier this week, supplies are now moving steadily in and out of the runway, Air Force Colonel Lee Anderson, Commander of the 36th Contingency Response Group based in Guam.
7122.txt:According to Nepal’s Ministry of Affairs, the U.S. is one of 52 countries providing much needed aid in the aftermath of the earthquake. A visit to Nepal’s only international airport makes that apparent.
7124.txt:SCDF Staff Sergeant Mohamad Shahafashahr, 31, hugs his son Mohamad Shayaan, 4, as wife (top) Madinah Hamid, and son Mohamad Aqil, 10, looks on, at the Homecoming ceremony for Home Team personnel returning from Nepal, at Changi Airport Terminal Terminal 2.
7124.txt:Their plane touched down at 11.45pm at Changi Airport, where around 300 family members were waiting.
7125.txt:“Lives are lost, homes destroyed, infrastructures obliterated. And yet why are the roads so empty?” Murton wrote. “Just a two-hour drive from a perfectly functioning airport in Pokhara, on a road that is astonishingly intact, there is virtually no aid being moved.”
7137.txt:Access to food and shelter and passable roads to rural areas were already problems in Nepal before the deadly earthquake in April, but the corruption that a strong majority of Nepali (72%) say is widespread in their government is proving to be yet another barrier to relief efforts. To that point, since the quake, reports have surfaced about relief goods being delayed by Nepal at the Indian border and at the country's only international airport. It's also been reported that the government is collecting import duties on these goods. Furthermore, donated monies cannot be distributed in the country unless they go directly into a Nepali government relief fund. This has made some potential donors skeptical about the ultimate destination for these funds.
7141.txt:Like many other relief supply planes, the Polish plane had to stop in New Delhi for more than a day as the congested Kathmandu airport — 80 minutes of flying time from the Indian capital — was unable to handle the heavy rush of relief planes.
7154.txt:I was also proud to know that the UAE was among the first 5 countries to send urgently needed help to Nepal. The state of the art Dubai International Humanitarian City offered unprecedented assistance to the survivors despite the innumerable challenges at the choked Kathmandu airport.
7154.txt:From the congested Lukla airport which is listed as one of the world’s most dangerous airport, it was relatively easy to take the turbine engine plane to Kathmandu and then fly to Dubai. I was the last Emirati citizen to leave traumatised Nepal.
7156.txt:Mr Kohlenberg said once they were inside the airport a magnitude 6.9 quake struck and hysteria erupted. "Families and people were yelling and screaming, running everywhere," he said.
7175.txt:Portland, Oregon based The Clymb, an e-commerce business that sells outdoor gear, apparel and adventure travel trips, and their on-site partner in Nepal, Ace the Himalaya, are organizing this relief effort. This program has 8 departures beginning in September 2015, and running through next May 2016. These departures will avoid the monsoon season and give time from now until Fall for the arrival city, Kathmandu, and the airport to begin receiving visitors once again.
7177.txt:It’s now on hold indefinitely, like so much in the country. Schools are shut. The government is reportedly transporting injured citizens from remote areas to the best hospitals in big cities, which are overwhelmed. Foreigners are sending tons of aid, or at least enough to crack the fragile runway of the small international airport.
7178.txt:U.S. airmen and Nepalese service members dismount a pallet of humanitarian aid after an aircraft offload during Joint Task Force 505 humanitarian assistance and disaster relief at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, May 7, 2015. U.S. Marines from III Marine Expeditionary Force came together with other services to provide unique capabilities to assist Nepal. U.S. Marine Corps photo by Cpl. Sara Medina
7178.txt:Over the weekend, airmen with the 36th Contingency Response Group attached to JTF 505 and members of the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal started working together to repair the Tribhuvan International Airport after it sustained damage following the earthquake and where subsequent frequent traffic of heavy relief aircraft further strained the runway.
7178.txt:Members of the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal, along with the 36th Contingency Response Group Airmen who are attached to Joint Task Force-505, work together to repair the runway at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, May 10, 2015. (U.S. Air Force photo/Staff Sgt. Melissa B. White)
7178.txt:U.S. Marine Corps Cpl. Mackenzie Higgins guides a UH-1Y Huey for takeoff at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, May 5, 2015. Marines with Marine Light Attack Helicopter Squadron 469 and Marine Medium Tilt Rotor Squadron 262 brought in supplies to Charikot, Nepal that will provide the Nepalese people with shelter after a magnitude-7.8 earthquake struck the country, April 25. U.S. Marine Corps photo by Lance Cpl. Mandaline Hatch
7178.txt:U.S. Marines Lance Cpl. David H. Serrano, right, and Staff Sgt. Joseph Thomas, unload a UH-1Y Huey off of a Boeing C-17 Globemaster III onto Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, May 3, 2015. Marines brought a Huey, tools and equipment to support the Nepalese Government request for help following a magnitude-7.8 earthquake, April 25. U.S. Marine Corps photo by Lance Cpl. Mandaline Hatch
7185.txt:Mr Kohlenberg said once they were inside the airport a magnitude 6.9 quake struck and hysteria erupted. "Families and people were yelling and screaming, running everywhere," he said.
7199.txt:A city of three million densely packed into haphazard dwellings in a Valley that used to be a former lake was always a recipe for disaster. The earthquakes were no surprise , what was surprising was the relatively low casualty rate.One of the nightmare scenarios for Kathmandu was that transportation and communication would be hit and the capital would be cut off. That did not happen. Roads and the only international airport suffered minimum damage, electricity and phones were restored surprisingly swiftly.However, the most encouraging sign was the sight of Nepal’s young population rushing to deliver emergency aid – filling a gaping gap left by the government. Despite strong aftershocks still shaking the Valley and adjoining districts, young Nepalis were volunteering to collect relief and transporting it to where they were needed the most, sometimes at their own cost. Imagine what the demographic dividend Nepal would reap if we could channel that pent-up energy and commitment to nation-building. At a time when a large swathe of country’s rural population is toiling in foreign lands , the spontaneous self-mobilisation of urban youth eased the pressure on state agencies. The government and the bureaucracy got a lot of flak for being late and disorganised with response.However, the scale of the disaster was such that it would have challenged even well-governed states. Nepal’s security forces deserve a lot of praise for putting their lives on the line to save lives. The country has been fortunate to receive immediate help from governments around the world, which have sent in their disaster relief teams to aid search and rescue operations in the remote districts.But the last three weeks have proven that Nepal needs to strengthen its capacity for disaster preparedness and response. After Tuesday’s 7.3 magnitude aftershock triggered fresh landslides and destruction in Dolakha, Sindhupalchok, Rasuwa we have had to suddenly revert back to search and rescue, while continuing delivery of relief supplies. It is important that both go in tandem as we race against time to provide shelters to millions of people before the rains and ahead of winter.Most families in Kavre and Sindhupalchok have already started building temporary shelters for themselves from local material and salvaged timber and bricks. This is only stopgap and the government must start delivering on a foolproof mechanism for subsidising home rebuilding.Populations in landslide prone areas must be identified, and relocated before the monsoon when slope failure is going to be a constant danger. For the district capitals and Kathmandu Valley the government must finally start strictly enforcing its 25-year-old building code.Large sections of the population in the affected areas outside Kathmandu Valley are subsistence farmers, they need help with seeds for the paddy planting season, otherwise they will go hungry for the rest of the year. In many ways, the monsoon season will seriously test us again.So far, the amount pledged by the donors for reconstruction may be encouraging, but the actual amount received in the PM’s relief fund is disappointing to say the least. Part of the fault is with the PMO which sent conflicting and confusing signals to potential donors already skeptical of the transparency in aid disbursement . The international community also has an opportunity to clean up its act, and not make the same mistakes it was severely criticised for in Haiti.The inflow of aid money is making some political parties salivate, calling for revival of their discredited all-party mechanism at the local level which was a cartel to share the loot. Others are also demanding immediate local elections, while some want a national government.In 2010, when a massive 8.8 magnitude quake hit Chile, only 525 people lost their lives and less than 9 percent of the affected population lost their homes. The same year, a 7.0 magnitude quake in Haiti killed over 100,000 people reducing the capital city to a rubble. Experts credit strict building codes and swift rescue for saving lives in Chile.So, an earthquake doesn’t kill people, lack of preparedness does.
720.txt:Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who was attending a summit in Jakarta, tried to rush back home but made it as far as Bangkok where his connecting flight to Kathmandu was cancelled because the capital’s international airport was shut down for commercial flights.
7211.txt:3. Infrastructure and contingency planning: Given the difficulty of road construction in Nepal and potential damage to roads during natural disasters, should Nepal build helipads throughout the country? Should Nepal also acquire a large fleet of helicopters for transportation as well as disaster relief? What should Nepal do for disaster contingency planning? Should Nepal build more international airports scattered around the country? Should Nepal also build major hospitals, crisis centers, as well as information and power grids in different parts of the country? How feasible are such goals?
723.txt:Within hours, aid began pouring in, as soon as Nepal’s sole international airport reopened after a closure prompted by communications outages and concern that the runway might have been damaged.
7245.txt:A Nepalese army chopper, that spotted the suspected wreckage of a US Marine helicopter, lands at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal. (Source: AP photo)
7248.txt:We headed back upstairs, but less than an hour later were back downstairs due to another aftershock. I rejoined my new friends from Dubai and met others from India. One fellow from India asked about the last summer’s War with Gaza. My first reaction was that I really didn’t want to get into politics. Then I remembered the sign I saw when departing Ben Gurion Airport: “When traveling abroad, you represent your country.” I felt that on this strange trip, I was representing not only my country, but all the Jewish People.
724.txt:Kathamandu airport has re-opened and aid flights have started delivering desperately needed supplies.
7253.txt:CHENGDU – The epicentre of the 7.9 magnitude earthquake was 80km to the north-west, and everything swayed in the capital. Some older buildings crumbled. The tremors were felt 1,000km away in neighbouring countries. The airport was closed for a day, and then became the staging area for a massive relief operation. Highways were blocked by landslides, delaying emergency rescue and relief to the mountain villages. Up to 80 per cent of the buildings in poorer rural areas near the epicentre were destroyed, a UNESCO World Heritage Site was severely damaged. Strong aftershocks, some above 6 magnitude, kept hitting the area for weeks afterwards.
7275.txt:A UH-1Y Huey helicopter flies into the Tribhuvan International Airport after a search and rescue operation in Kathmandu, Nepal, May 13, 2015. REUTERS/Thor J. Larson/U.S. Marine Corps/Handout
7298.txt:A Nepalese army chopper, that spotted the suspected wreckage of a US Marine helicopter, lands at the airport in Kathmandu. Picture: Bernat Armangue
7310.txt:- With the safe return of Celia and Rick Wilcox, relief efforts for Nepal with a decidedly strong connection to the Mount Washington Valley were well underway Tuesday.During the 7.8 magnitude earthquake on April 25 that killed approximately 8,000 people and leveled many buildings in the land-locked nation at the top of the world, Wilcoxes, who are mountain guides and co-owners of International Mountain Equipment, were in the midst of leading three clients, accompanied by 10 native guides and porters, on a 22-day trek through the Himalaya Mountains. The trek was originally intended to include a stop at the Mount Everest Base Camp.The side trip to the base camp - where 18 people died in avalanches triggered by the earthquake - was abandoned, but the trekkers nonetheless continued on their preplanned route, reaching Kathmandu without incident. From there, they flew back to the U.S., right on schedule for their May 8 return.On Tuesday, the Wilcoxes were back at the IME offices, fielding calls from concerned friends, colleagues and contractors. In between the calls and drop-in visitors, they devised a plan to help the Nepal community of Khumjung, home to the Sherpa guides they've worked for some 30 years.At the same time, Tsering Sherpa, a Nepal native and resident of North Conway, and Candy Chaplin of Bartlett, president of the Nepal Children's Health and Education Foundation (NCHEF), launched a relief effort of their own.While Sherpa focused on her hometown of Namche Bazaar, where a school and a dentist's office were destroyed in the original earthquake, Chaplin was concentrating on the villages of Bung and Chheskam, where a school was also damaged. In March, Chaplin led 16 students and two parent doctors from the Derryfield School to the towns where they volunteered at a regional health clinic.Celia Wilcox thanked everyone who kept her and Rick in their prayers, noting that 'those prayers were answered ahead of time,' because thanks to careful planning, the IME trekkers were entirely self-reliant, and, when the April 25th earthquake hit, they found themselves in a wide valley that effectively shielded them from both avalanches and rock slides.She corrected early media reports that the IME group lost its possessions when the Hotel Thamel in Kathmandu collapsed - the hotel turned out to be fine - and that the international airport at Kathmandu was shut down because it was damaged and clogged with international aid that wasn't getting to its ultimate destination.Sherpa, whose father, Tsedam, is a close friend of the Wilcoxes and operates a mountaineering store in Nepal, said she and a fellow Fryeburg Academy graduate are hoping to get manufacturers and retailers to donate tents, which would be sent to her homeland.Rick and Celia Wilcox, for their part, are in the early stages of launching a nonprofit to channel monetary donations directly to community leaders in Nepal for rebuilding projects in Khumjung and perhaps Namche Bazaar, too.Tax-deductible donations may be made right now, however, to the NCHEF, where the money would be used to pay for the repair or construction of schools, and for covering the tuition of the three children of a porter who was killed on April 25.Chaplin said she expects to spend a lot of time on the phone to determine what damage was caused by the aftershock.The Wilcoxes added that in addition to supporting one of the several ongoing Nepal relief efforts, the many people who’ve trekked there in recent years should reach out to any local contacts they’ve made and help the country’s recovery by person-to-person assistance.Another way to help, said Celia, would be for people to go on another trek “and leave lots of cash.” jkoziol@newstote.com
7316.txt:They expect to return Tuesday, if the Nepal airport is open.
7325.txt:Airmen and Nepalese officials worked together to repair the runway May 9-10, at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal.
7325.txt:"The repairs will allow the continued throughput of humanitarian aid and relief supplies by ultimately preserving the life of the single international airport in Nepal," said Capt. Ryan White, assigned to the 36th CRG airfield operations. "This airfield is Nepal's lifeline for relief supplies and for international travel, so these repairs will help the airfield keep pace with the aid coming in so the Government of Nepal can keep getting assistance to the people who need it."
7325.txt:During the dark of the nights, after operations ceased at the airport, four Airmen joined a six-man Nepalese team to conduct the repairs.
7325.txt:Within one to three hours of completing the repairs, the runway was operational again -- just in time for the airport to open up and receive morning flights and thousands of pounds of relief supplies.
7331.txt:The helicopter had been flying from Kathmandu airport as part of the US Operation Sahayogi Haat, which means "helping hand" in Nepali.
7332.txt:“We have a 7.8 earthquake in a poor mountainous country wedged between two strong wannabe superpowers [India and China] with a single runway international airport, no seaport and 15-day road links in a race against time to feed and shelter hundreds of thousands of people before the monsoon season starts,” he said.
7332.txt:Nepal has only one international airport – Tribhuvan Kathmandu International Airport (KTM) – able to receive freighters. KTM has just nine parking stands and one runway. It lacks dollies, slave pallets and forklift trucks. The runway was damaged soon after the earthquake relief effort began. The upshot is a 196 tons landing and take-off limit which has pushed the emphasis on aid onto smaller IL76s rather than the larger freighters required. Charter costs for NGOs have soared as a result.
7332.txt:The relief effort via KTM is also being hindered by geopolitics and red-tape. The rival militaries, including the U.S., are competing for landing permits and space and, despite the severity and urgency of the situation, passenger flights are still being given priority over chartered aid freighters by Nepali authorities. The result is that over 500m tons of relief cargo is currently awaiting delivery by air from Delhi. Hundreds of tons more is being also stored at airports around the Middle East.
7335.txt:This is a desperately poor country, an economic basket case, where corruption is endemic, starting with daylight robbery going through customs and immigration at Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport. The government’s novel solution back in 2009 was to order airport staff to wear trousers without pockets so there would be no place to stash the cash.
7336.txt:“The international community’s response to the earthquake has faced a number of challenges, ranging from accessing harder to reach rural areas to logistical difficulties of bringing needed commodities into the country. Nepal is serviced by one small airport in Kathmandu that has been overwhelmed and damaged by large, incoming cargo flights. As such, there are significant delays in getting aid into the country,” Wilson explained.
733.txt:Aid agencies around the world wasted no time appealing for donations to help Nepal. And with Kathmandu's airport reopening Sunday, the first aid flights began arriving with supplies.
7353.txt:Earlier, Secretary General of NRCS Mr. Dev Ratna Dhakhwa had welcomed to Mr. Sy and his team at the airport.
7354.txt:The World Food Program (which is bringing in big loadbearing Russian helicopters) and the UNHCR are among other organizations have been flying in tons of food and tarps. But getting the supplies out of Kathmandu's tiny international airport to a staging area, and then to the area where trucks are being loaded, takes at least a day.
7355.txt:Lt. Col. Powers, from Brookings, Oregon, coordinated the search and rescue mission at the Tribhuvan International Airport, Kathmandu, Nepal on Wednesday
7358.txt:On April 25, a 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck Nepal, with its epicentre in Gorkha district, 200 kilometres northwest of the capital, Kathmandu. As of April 30, the government of Nepal reported 7,365 deaths and over 14,000 injured. More than 130,000 houses were destroyed and 85,856 houses damaged. The country’s only international airport in Kathmandu is heavily congested due to the arrival of numerous international organizations bringing in aid. Tremors were felt strongly in northern India, where to date a reported 72 people have been killed and 237 injured in the states of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. Casualties are expected to rise. In Tibet, the death toll currently stands at 17.
7358.txt:Logistical challenges, including congestion at Kathmandu airport and the fact that the majority of affected areas are inaccessible by road, have hampered MSF’s efforts to scale up activities quickly.
7358.txt:“Our priority is to reach people in places where no one else is going and who have not received assistance,” says Dr. Prince Mathew, who was one of the first MSF staff members to arrive in the country. “So it has been a huge challenge logistically to get the necessary supplies in through the congested airport, and secure the air transport we need to be able to provide medical assistance and deliver shelter and relief materials to the people in most urgent need.”
7358.txt:Initial briefing of the first MSF surgical team to arrive at the Kathmandu airport in Nepal.
738.txt:http://www.cp24.com/news/montreal-woman-stranded-in-nepal-describes-chaos-at-airport-1.2345343
738.txt:Montreal woman stranded in Nepal describes 'chaos' at airport
738.txt:TORONTO -- A Montreal woman stranded in Nepal by Saturday's magnitude 7.8 earthquake says there's chaos at the airport as foreigners try to leave the stricken country.
738.txt:Emilie-Anne Leroux says she was in a taxi on the way to the airport to return to Canada to be with her father who is having heart surgery when the quake hit.
738.txt:"It was complete chaos at the airport," Leroux said.
740.txt:A C-130 Hercules aircraft of Sri Lanka Air Force (SLAF) carrying a team of military doctors, nurses and medical assistants arrived at the Kathmandu airport this morning to assist the relief efforts.
741.txt:Two IL-76 planes were sent to an airport in Chengdu, Sichuan’s capital, and one IL-76 plane has been placed at an airport in Kunming, capital of nearby Yunnan Province, to transport PLA rescuers and equipment to Nepal.
741.txt:“Within two days of the quake, 12 Chinese civil jets had carried more than 1,600 Chinese stranded at the Kathmandu Airport in Nepal,” the ministry said last night.
744.txt:The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country’s only international airport which was briefly closed.
745.txt:(MENAFN - The Peninsula) Tens of thousands of people were spending the night in the open under a chilly and thunderous sky after a powerful earthquake devastated Nepal yesterday, killing more than 1,382 people, collapsing modern houses and ancient temples and triggering a landslide on Mount Everest. Officials warned the death toll would rise as more reports came in from far-flung areas.Nepal urged countries to send aid to help it cope with the aftermath as the desperate search for survivors continued into the early hours today.As fears of a humanitarian disaster grew, thousands of people braved freezing temperatures to sleep on pavements, in parks or in fields, too afraid to return to homes damaged by the quake.The US Geological Survey put the magnitude of the quake at 7.9. It said the quake hit at 11:56am local time (0611 GMT) at Lamjung, about 80km northwest of Kathmandu.The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country's only international airport which was briefly closed. Aftershock tremors could be felt more than two hours after the initial quake.The home ministry said the death toll had reached 1,382. A police spokesman said more than 630 of them were killed in Kathmandu Valley and at least 300 more in the capital."We have launched a massive rescue and rehabilitation action plan and lots needs to be done," said Information and Broadcasting Minister Minendra Rijal. "Our country is in a moment of crisis and we will require tremendous support and aid," he told Indian television.Hospitals across the nation struggled to cope with the dead and injured from Nepal's worst quake in 81 years, and a lack of equipment meant rescuers could look no deeper than surface rubble for signs of life.Areas of Kathmandu were reduced to rubble, and rescue operations had still not begun in some remote areas. Among the capital's landmarks destroyed in the earthquake was the 60-metre-high (100-foot) Dharahara Tower, built in 1832 for the queen of Nepal, with a viewing balcony that had been open to visitors for the last 10 years.A jagged stump 10 metres high was all that was left of the lighthouse-like structure. As bodies were pulled from the ruins, a policeman said up to 200 people had been trapped inside.Across the city, rescuers scrabbled through the rubble of destroyed buildings, among them ancient, wooden Hindu temples.Foreign climbers and their Nepalese guides around Mount Everest were caught by the tremors and a huge avalanche. An Indian army mountaineering team found 18 bodies on Mount Everest, where an avalanche unleashed by the earthquake swept through base camp. More than 1,000 climbers had gathered there at the start of the climbing season.Aid groups readied staff to go to Nepal with supplies to provide clean water, sanitation and emergency food. A spokesman for Nepal's home ministry said the government had released around $500m as emergency funds for rescue operations.Neighbouring India, where 44 people were reported killed in the quake and its aftershocks, was first to respond to calls for help, sending military aircraft with medical equipment and relief teams. Offers of help poured in from governments around the world, with the United States and the European Union announcing they were sending in disaster response teams. There were similar offers from Sri Lanka and Pakistan. In Europe, Britain, Germany, Norway and Spain also pledged support and assistance.China's official Xinhua news agency said that 13 people were killed in the Tibet region.
746.txt:Accordingly, Nepal’s government has declared a state of emergency, asking the international community for help. We ARE the international community! So how can we help? Of course, I can’t just sit here on my sunny balcony in the ‘happiest country in the world’ (Switzerland was recently found to be that by UNO) and simply do nothing. However, I can’t drive out to the airport, catch the next plane to Kathmandu and help the population there myself. So, the possibility that remains is donating. I’m a student, so I don’t really have many financial means, but to those affected people in Nepal, even 40 or 50 Swiss Francs will be of great help! If you, dear readers, donate as well, it’s gonna be even better! As for today, my blog’s got 43 followers (Thank you so much for that, by the way!). If every one of you donates 25 Francs/Euros or whatever other currency, we’ll have contributed over 1000 Euros already! Now imagine, if other bloggers join in, our lovely internet community will unravel its full strength and actually make a difference in Nepal 🙂
749.txt:Members of China International Search and Rescue Team arrive at Tribhuwan International Airport in Kathmandu April 26, 2015, after a strong earthquake hit Nepal on Saturday. [Photo/Xinhua]
749.txt:Shankar Koirala, Nepal's joint secretary of the Office of the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers, warmly welcomed the Chinese team at the Kathmandu airport, terming their arrival as a timely assistance.
750.txt:Governmental officials from China's foreign ministry, earthquake administration, and Military, as well as the Nepalese ambassador to China were at Beijing International Airport to see them off.
755.txt:Chinese tourists are seen outside the Kathmandu airport after an 8.1-magnitude earthquake hits Nepal on Saturday, April 25, 2015. The airport was shut on Saturday following the strong earthquake. [Photo/China News Service]
757.txt:Kathmandu Airport Closed after Strong Quake, All Flights Canceled
760.txt:Charities assembled disaster teams but the most convenient pathway into Nepal — one of the world's poorest countries — was not available because the international airport in Kathmandu was shut down.
769.txt:Telangana Resident Commissioner Shashank Goel told The Hindu over phone on Sunday that 35 tourists from Telangana including a group of 25 booked by Saibaba Travels from Hyderabad have been brought back safely. “We also had some other Telugu tourists, who did not go in groups,” he said adding that all of them managed to reach the Kathmandu airport and boarded the special flights to New Delhi.
774.txt:Most areas were without power and water, but with Kathamandu airport reopened, the first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. Workers were sending out tents and relief goods in trucks and helicopters, said disaster management official Rameshwar Dangal. He said schools had been turned into shelters.
774.txt:Mukesh Kafle, head of Nepal Electricity Authority, said power had been restored to the main government office, the airport and hospitals. But the damage to the electricity cables and poles was making it difficult to restore power across many parts of the country.
777.txt:A pair of twins were among those who reached the IGI Airport from Nepal on Sunday evening.
777.txt:Nineteen hours and 58 minutes after the first tremor shook Nepal, Jasjeet Singh Malhotra stood outside Terminal-3 at Indira Gandhi International Airport hugging his family, unable to believe that he was alive.
778.txt:http://www.dnaindia.com/india/report-quake-brings-air-traffic-to-a-standstill-as-kathmandu-airport-closes-2080684
778.txt:Quake brings air traffic to a standstill as Kathmandu airport closes
778.txt:Scores of passengers, including those from Mumbai, were stuck on Saturday after the cancellation of several flights to Nepal following a major earthquake there. Many other foreign flights also got diverted to India as Kathmandu airport was shut.
778.txt:A SpiceJet spokesperson said, "Due to the earthquake, Kathmandu airport is closed and SpiceJet's flights to Kathmandu are currently on hold. Passengers travelling to Nepal should check with SpiceJet before heading for the airport."
778.txt:The city airport was declared open for operations five hours later, with a Jet Airways flight to Delhi and a Qatar Airways flight to Doha being among the first ones to take off.
780.txt:So far, information received through the kin of those who had gone to the Himalayan country was that 311 people, including pilgrims and tourists have been stranded there."Those belonging to Tamil Nadu are safe in Nepal. The state government has taken all efforts for their safe return. Relatives of those stranded need not be worried," it said.Relatives of those in Nepal may contact help desks in Tamil Nadu House in Delhi through 011-21493460 011-24193456.They can also contact the toll-free number 1070 in the office of the Relief Commissioner here and 1077 to reach control rooms in districts.Government said officials of Tamil Nadu House in Delhi have been instructed to take appropriate steps to rescue those stranded and added that an official has been posted to liaison with the External Affairs Ministry on the issue.Two officials have also been posted at Delhi Airport to bring stranded people to Tamil Nadu House and to arrange for their return to their respective towns in the State."All arrangements are in place for the stay of stranded people in TN House in Delhi and for their return to the state.
781.txt:Authorities closed Kathmandu’s international airport and diverted flights. Across Asia perhaps 100 million people felt the quake, the USGS said.
782.txt:ON BOARD FLIGHT 6E 31: There seemed to be quite a few who had at the last moment cancelled their IndiGo flight to Kathmandu from New Delhi on Sunday . They will be happy they did.The flight, filled with journalists from all over the world and Nepalese citizens going home to meet their families, was on time as it took off at about 20 minutes past 11am. Amrit Sharma, a web entrepreneur settled in Minneapolis, was worried about his mother in Nepal. "I'm happy to be going home," he said in a thick American accent. "Happy and sad."Behind him, two Nepalese men were discussing the extent of damage to their houses. One of them, possibly working in India, said he would have to "remain here for another 10 years."Trouble suddenly started at around 12.45pm when the pilot announced that he had lost contact with the ATC in Kathmandu. Even as the passengers were turning to each other to see if they had understood correctly what he said, there was an explanation a minute later that did nothing to change the mood. "ATC has evacuated the building. We are not able to establish contact."Thousands of feet above ground, in the middle of nowhere, that didn't sound good at all. And that's a deliberate understatement.Ten minutes after that the pilot took the mic again. "Hope you understand. It is beyond our control." Everyone understood. There was no scope for confusion.Another quake had hit Kathmandu, and the 6.9 magnitude tremor had forced everyone in the ATC building to run for their lives. So there was no one to guide the flight from Delhi.But the plane kept going towards Kathmandu, the pilot hopeful that in the next few minutes the ATC men would perhaps come back and take control. That didn't happen. What did, instead, was the message that the runway had now closed. Kathmandu was just 20 minutes away. Another address to the passengers followed. At about 1.15pm, the pilot said that though they don't know the exact intensity of the latest jolt to hit the valley, "we have come to know it was stronger than yesterday". After a silent five minutes, he came back on air, this time to say, "We are not allowed to land. We will have to divert to Delhi."Something resembling a muted yelp came out of Sharma. "My mother," he said.By 1.25pm, the flight was turning back for Delhi. It touched down at the capital at a little past 2pm, but no one was allowed to deplane. "Please remain in your seats," a member of the cabin crew announced. "We are trying to see if it's possible to go back to Kathmandu."At 4.05pm, all passengers were still inside the plane. It had been five hours cooped up in the aircraft and people were getting restless. Half an hour later, the mic crackled to life again. "We have the clearance now, we are going back to Kathmandu."At 10 minutes to 5pm, the 6E 31 took off again. But at 6.15, it was the pilot again. "We are 100 miles short of Kathmandu. The weather is bad and it won't be advisable to penetrate it. Don't worry, we have two hours of fuel."It would take another two hours for the plane to touch down, which it did at 8pm. The one and half hour Delhi-Kathmandu flight had taken close to 9 hours. In the distance from Tribhuvan International Airport was the city of Kathmandu, desolate, bruised and dark.
783.txt:He further said that that Punjabis landing at Delhi Airport were being rendered assistance by the Punjab government representatives at the airport and at Punjab Bhawan in New Delhi.
787.txt:This factor could be vital in their safe return as it is also not known when the Tribhuvan International Airport of Kathmandu opens for air traffic having suffered extensive damage in the quake. Meanwhile, following instructions of Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu, the Special Representative of the AP government, K Rammohan Rao, contacted the Ministry of External Affairs at once and sought its cooperation in securing a ground report.
788.txt:But there has been little sign of international assistance on the ground so far, with some aid flights prevented from landing by aftershocks that closed Kathmandu's main airport several times on Sunday.
791.txt:According to Rahul, “the girl was in office when the quake came, she is alright but has not been able to reach her family yet. There have been some occasional calls made but in vain. While the boy is trying to help out the parents, however, he fears that taking them to airport can lead to another tragedy.”
791.txt:“There are nearly hundreds, including locals, Indians and foreigners, stranded at Kathmandu airport. However, the government and embassies are of no help. We are at nobody’s mercy. A little rumour can also lead to a stampede at the airport which is dreaded by us. Our daughter is also missing. Therefore they are braving the chill and rain and waiting for help outside their homes,” revealed the family on phone call with Rahul.
792.txt:Major aid groups including Oxfam, Save the Children and Unicef quickly refreshed their websites with emergency appeals for donations. Images of destruction circulated on social media, including under the Twitter hashtag NepalEarthquake, showing massive piles of rubble and tents springing up in the country’s historic capital city, whose origins date back almost 2,000 years. A key development has been the reopening of Kathmandu’s airport.
796.txt:Mr. Sharma and his family were on their way to Kathmandu Airport after the completion of a five-day pilgrimage-cum-sight-seeing tour of the Himalayan country when the quake struck. Just a few kilometres off the ancient city of Bhaktapur — now reduced to a ghost town —their SUV suddenly started moving in an unstable manner as the earth shuddered violently.
796.txt:Milind Purandare, all-India sales manager, Girnar Tea, said he felt as if he has got a “second-life.” Along with 26 other tourists, Mr. Purandare, who is from Mumbai, was just getting ready to board the bus waiting outside their hotel in Kathmandu for the airport, when the quake struck.
796.txt:According to Sameer Sahai, Additional Resident Commissioner of Maharashtra Sadan, around 9,000 persons, including foreigners, were stranded at Kathmandu Airport.
802.txt:As planeloads of supplies, doctors and relief workers from neighbouring countries arrived at Kathmandu's airport, thousands of Indians lined up outside in hopes of gaining a seat on a plane returning to New Delhi. One of those fleeing, 32-year-old tailor Assad Alam, said he and his wife and daughter were leaving with heavy hearts.
802.txt:Rescuers aided by international teams spent Sunday digging through rubble of buildings - concrete slabs, bricks, iron beams, wood - to look for survivors. Because the air was filled with chalky concrete dust, many people wore breathing masks or held shawls over their faces. The quake will probably put a huge strain on the resources of this impoverished country best known for Everest, the highest mountain in the world. The economy of Nepal, a nation of 27.8 million people, relies heavily on tourism, principally trekking and Himalayan mountain climbing. With Kathmandu airport reopened, the first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. The first to respond were Nepal's neighbours - India, China and Pakistan, all of which have been jockeying for influence over the landlocked nation. Nepal remains closest to India, with which it shares deep political, cultural and religious ties.
805.txt:Juhu couple Sahil Mane and Tara Kaushal landed in Kathmandu last Monday on a two-week vacation. Sahil, a photographer, and Tara, a media consultant, hadn't had a holiday in two years, and selected Nepal for an adrenalin rush, complete with treks and bike rides. Yesterday, 11.56 am Nepal time, they literally saw the world crumble in front of them.As the earthquake of a 7.9 magnitude hit Nepal - its worst in 80 years - Tara and Sahil were getting a tattoo done at Hotel Yak and Yeti, in the capital Kathmandu. First the lights went off, then came the tremors, and the reality hit them when they saw a man jumping from a window of a building opposite. That's when they realised it was serious trouble."It was crazy, the ground was shaking and the buildings were crumbling to dust in front of our eyes," Sahil said. "We rushed out and saw a man jumping from a building. We saw a huge crack in the middle of our hotel building. It had cracked from the middle. Several people were buried under the debris within minutes."The couple, like hundreds of thousands of people trapped in Kathmandu, have taken refuge in a park. No-one dares to venture indoors as there are warnings of more tremors. "We were attending a tattoo convention with more than 70 artists from all over the world when the chandeliers hanging from the roof began swinging wildly. "The hotels are shut, and people have lined the streets, parks, everywhere," Sahil said.The Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu was indefinitely shut on Saturday. However, by evening yesterday, the airlines announced the resumption of flights to Nepal from Sunday. A few airlines, such as SpiceJet, have been asked to keep aircraft ready to lift supplies and bring back stranded passengers.Around 60 people from Maharashtra are believed to be stranded in Nepal. Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis has directed state officials to keep in touch with them and assured all possible help, and a rescue team of 22 members from the Mumbai Fire Brigade are expected to fly to the Himalayan country."I have instructed the state officials to be in touch with tourists from Maharashtra in Nepal and to give all the support and help to them," Fadnavis tweeted.The Juhu couple said they were looking forward to get out of Nepal as soon as possible, as even water was scarce. Thousands of tourists have been stranded without food and water, the couple said, adding the people had pitched tents at the parks."As soon as we realised there was an earthquake, we started looking for water. Everything has been shut. As we walked the narrows streets, which resemble the by-lanes of Bandra, walls around us were collapsing. There are people from all over the world who are stranded. We are lucky that we had come prepared for the music festival, and carried tents, sleeping bags and sweaters," Sahil said.
807.txt:Indians after evacuated from earthquake hit Nepal arrive at IGI airport T3 in New Delhi on Sunday. (Source: PTI)
811.txt:Kar also said that an Indian air force aircraft landed at New Delhi’s Palam airport with 237 Indians on board.
813.txt:Umesh Zirpe, a noted mountaineer and Himalaya expert, has survived many a calamity on his expeditions in the past. On Saturday morning, when devastation struck this mountain country, Zirpe was driving to the airport to check on flight details of a team of mountaineers, who had completed yet another voyage, when he suddenly felt his car shake up. For a split second as Zirpe was about to consider a flat tyre, he saw houses around him collapse like a pack of cards, reduced to dust instantly.Minutes later, volunteers from his organisation Giripremi back in Pune, were set in motion to begin preparations for rescue operations. On Sunday, Zirpe and 12 other mountaineers from Pune who were on an expedition, reached Kathmandu airport safely, to take a flight back home, but Zirpe has decided to stay back."There are many people from Maharashtra stuck in various parts of Nepal. The situation is very critical. The roads are full of debris and those who have survived the calamity are shattered. Right now, they are in need of three things — moral support, blood and money. After seeing the devastation all around me, I have decided to stay put and help others."Zirpe led the Pune-based team, which had conquered Mount Everest in 2012; subsequently, he had taken a team of mountaineers to the Everest base camp. Today, he feels that he and his volunteers are fortunate to be of help. "While in the car, when we learnt that an earthquake of such a huge magnitude had hit this region, the driver just left the vehicle and ran in the middle of the road in sheer panic," narrated Zirpe over acrackling phone line from Kathmandu on Sunday evening. "It was the ugliest scene ever. People have lost their homes and are now completely shattered."Zirpe put down his impromptu decision to the long association he has had with Nepal — the many friendships he has struck here over the years and the local organisations that have helped him through many mountaineering expeditions. "Now, when they are facing a crisis, I thought we should help them. Apart from Nepali nationals, there are several Maharashtrians who are stuck here and I feel I am obliged to help them."He visited a local hospital on Sunday to seek names and other details of people from Maharashtra who are admitted for treatment. "The Nepalese government will require manpower to help survivors and I have asked members of Giripremi to be on the standby as volunteers," Zirpe said.Ashish Rajput, a Solapur-based professor, stuck in the calamity-hit region, feels he is living an experience nothing short of a nightmare. As he travelled from Kathmandu to Sunauli border, with 38 others who were on a trip to Nepal, in order to board a Mumbai-bound train, the only images being presented to him are those of dead people and debris."When the quake struck, we had just emerged from the Pashupatinath temple in Kathmandu, after a darshan. Soon we saw the situation getting out of hand, and so decided to go to our next destination on Sunauli border. This devastation will be etched in our memory for ever. The agony and grief in the eyes of survivors on the scene is unbearable," said Rajput on the phone. "All of us just want to return home. But are these the memories we deserve to carry for life?" The group will now board the train on Tuesday.The devastation will be etched in our memory forever. The agony and grief in the eyes of the survivors on the scene is unbearable
816.txt:The Nepal temblor has sent shock waves in Karnataka too, with around 250 people from the state stranded there. The good news is that the first batch of 40 Bengalureans will fly to Delhi early Sunday and land in Bengaluru by noon, according to immigration officials and embassy sources. "Nearly 400 Indians are waiting at Kathmandu airport," they said.Shivaram MS, a tour coordinator in Kathmandu, confirmed 40 Bengalureans are with him at the airport. Chief secretary Kaushik Mukherjee told STOI that two senior officers, Bescom MD Pankaj Pandey and IGP (north range) Umesh Kumar, have gone to Nepal.Meanwhile families back home are worried as the Kathmandu airport has been shut and communication lines are cut off.Sunitha Gowda, a resident of Veerbhadranagar near Banashankari, broke down when STOI called her: "My parents went to Nepal for a tour on April 16 and were to return on Monday. My father L Siddamaraiah called me at 5.55pm on Saturday after the quake and seemed to be in shock. He could hardly speak and asked me to get help from Bengaluru.I am praying they are safe."Ritesh Kumar Singh, IAS officer who is heading the helpline and disaster management committee, said, "At least 250 people from Karnataka are stranded in Nepal. We tracked down two large groups of 85 and 40 Kannadigas each who are safe . IAF has started evacuation," he said.--inputs by Arunima Chakraborty and Disha SanghviBizman called an hour before takeoffBusinessman Ramakrishna Elluru, 32, from Yelahanka New Town had gone to Kathmandu on a business trip on April 18 and was to return by Saturday's 4.30pm flight. His friend Raghavendra B R told STOI, "He last called me at 3.30pm, an hour before his flight was to take off from Kathmandu. Since then, we've been unable to connect. His family is very worried."She was on tour with 6 friendsSusheela, 54, an LIC employee from Davanagere, who had gone on a tour to Nepal with six Bengaluru-based friends on April 22, finally established contact with her kin.Susheela, who is single, had spoken to her family at 11am from Muktinath but later lost contact, said her sister Krishnaveni.Group waits for road clearanceSooryakant Dambal and his family and friends, who were part of a 35-member group from Belagavi, are safe, said his son-in-law Rajendra Anegundi from Chikkodi. But they can't return until the local administration gives them the road clearance, as several roads have developed cracks following the earthquake, he added.Miraculous escape for family of sevenA seven-member family from Mysuru had a narrow escape as they left Kathmandu just an hour before the tragedy. B S Nagaraj, priest at Ramamandira in Paduvarahalli, and his family reached the Indian border just after noon, said his brother-in-law.They were part of an organized trip by Karnataka Kisan Sangha in Bengaluru.Student worried about his parentsA distressed Sandeep H R, a college student from Jayanagar, said his parents flew to Kathmandu on Thursday and were expected to visit Pokhra on Saturday."They last spoke to me at noon. I have no clue whether they have reached Pokhra or are stranded there or are in Kathmandu still. I'm unable to speak to them," he said.
826.txt:Banerjee, who arrived at Bagdogra airport this afternoon to assess first hand the damage caused by the powerful temblor in north Bengal, told reporters that the damage and devastation were "very sad and unfortunate".Expressing her solidarity with the quake-hit in Nepal, Banerjee said, "The state government has so far received 31 requests from Bengalis stuck in the Himalayan kingdom and we are initiating efforts to bring them back."Banerjee visited the residence of Rukban Khatun, one of the three quake victims in Naxalbari in Darjeeling district, and consoled the bereaved family members."The accompanying principal secretary to the state Disaster Management Department, Suresh Kumar, will brief you about the financial help of the state government for the quake victims, their next of kin and the quake-affected," she told the media.Kumar said the state would give Rs 4 lakh each as compensation to the next of kin of the dead, Rs 2 lakh each to the seriously injured, Rs 3,200 each for repair of damaged mud houses, Rs 95,000 each for collapsed houses, Rs 1.10 lakh each for collapsed pucca houses and Rs 1,200 each for cremation and those having suffered fracture on hand/foot.Banerjee, who also visited the injured at the Siliguri Hospital, accompanied by North Bengal Development Minister Goutam Dev, will meet six District Magistrates this evening.Meanwhile, with another tremor rocking the region this afternoon, residents of several highrises here spent the time in the open refusing to enter their apartments.North Bengal has been worst affected by yesterday's earthquake accounting for three deaths in Jalpaiguri, Naxalbari and Siliguri. Fifty-five injured have been admitted to the government hospital in Siliguri.Earlier, Mamata said at the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International airport in Kolkata on way to north Bengal that the Nepal government had sought assistance from the West Bengal government and that the government was rushing a rescue team there.North Bengal bore the brunt of the massive earthquake with epicentre in Nepal accounting for three deaths in Jalpaiguri, Naxalbari and Siliguri. Fifty-five persons were also injured, all of whom were admitted to the government hospital in Siliguri, Banerjee said.All 15 mountaineers from the state who were on Mount Everest were safe, she said before boarding the flight to Bagdogra.
828.txt:Banerjee, who arrived at Bagdogra airport this afternoon to assess first hand the damage caused by the powerful temblor in north Bengal, told reporters that the damage and devastation were “very sad and unfortunate“.
828.txt:Earlier, Mamata said at the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International airport in Kolkata on way to north Bengal that the Nepal government had sought assistance from the West Bengal government and that the government was rushing a rescue team there.
82.txt:Kathamandu airport has re-opened and aid flights have started delivering desperately needed supplies.
833.txt:Charities assembled disaster teams based on the assumption that sanitation, shelter and medical help are urgently required but the most convenient pathway into Nepal — one of the world’s poorest countries — was not available because the international airport in Kathmandu was shut down.
834.txt:Jaishankar said today's aftershocks have hampered the rescue and relief operations as Kathmandu airport was shut for long hours. However, the airport was later reopened.
837.txt:Kumar said 30 buses would be despatched to Kathmandu soon to carry stranded Indians back home. NDRF Director General (DG) O P Singh, who is camping in Kathmandu since yesterday, said a team of his men has also been deployed at the Tribhuvan international airport to assist Indian Embassy officials in the air evacuation of stranded Indians.
83.txt:Local hospitals were already filling with injured residents, and Kathmandu's international airport was shut down, hampering initial relief efforts in the isolated mountainous country.
83.txt:Neighboring Pakistan has offered help, and an international aid effort is likely to begin once Kathmandu's international airport can be reopened
849.txt:NEW DELHI: The government is sending teams of senior executives and engineers from state-run energy companies to Nepal with a view to ensuring uninterrupted fuel supply and restoring power lines in the quake-struck country.In the first phase, a team of 4-5 senior executives from flagship refiner-marketer IndianOil Corporation and more than a dozen engineers from transmission utility PowerGrid Corporation are scheduled to leave for Kathmandu on Monday morning."We have established contact with Nepal Oil Corporation and assured them of our full cooperation in maintaining fuel supplies. We are constantly monitoring the stock position of all products at our main dispatch centre in Raxaul and their depots in Amalekhganj. Both have comfortable stock positions," IndianOil chairman B Ashok told TOI on Sunday.Nepal gets all its petro products from India under a government-to-government dispensation. IndianOil supplies more than a million tonne of various fuels in a month. This consists of 26,000-27,000 tonnes of cooking gas and 0.8 million tonne of petrol, diesel and kerosene.Other company executives said IndianOil has set up a control cell in Delhi to coordinate with the oil ministry and the Nepalese embassy soon after the quake hit Nepal on Saturday. Another cell has been set up in Mumbai, the company's marketing headquarters, to ensure dispatch of products on priority.Ashok said IndianOil was also meeting the additional demand for jet fuel from the Indian Air Force, which is at the forefront of relief and rescue operations, at Hindon, Gorakhpur or any other military airport from where choppers and cargo aircraft are taking off on 'Operation Maitri' - as the Nepal operation has been named.A team of 14 engineers from PowerGrid are also scheduled to leave for Kathmandu to help restore power lines. The team was scheduled to fly out on Sunday but could not because of bad weather. "If required, we will send more people," a company executive told TOI.There is no disruption of supply of 100 mw from India, which is distributed among consumers in the plains of Nepal bordering India.
84.txt:Peter Drury Peter Drury Mike Scott Peter Drury NAVESH CHITRAKAR NAVESH CHITRAKAR Omar Havana Mike Scott/Fairfax NZ Reuters Reuters Omar Havana Peter Drury/Fairfax NZ Peter Drury/Fairfax NZ Mike Scott/Fairfax NZ Reuters Reuters Navesh Chitrakar/Reuters Reuters Navesh Chitrakar/Reuters Navesh Chitrakar/Reuters Navesh Chitrakar/Reuters Navesh Chitrakar/Reuters Reuters Reuters Reuters Reuters Niranjan Shrestha/AP Niranjan Shrestha/AP Niranjan Shrestha/AP Zhou Shengping/Xinhua News Agency Zhou Shengping/Xinhua News Agency Dhany Osman/Handout via Reuters Dhany Osman/Handout via Reuters Navesh Chitrakar/Reuters Navesh Chitrakar/Reuters Fallen buildings on the outskirts of Kathmandu after Saturday's devastating quake. A boy cries amidst the devastation in Kathmandu. An injured man walks down a road in Kathmandu. Soldiers pick through rubble in Kathmandu as the search for survivors goes on. People cremate the bodies of the victims of the Nepal earthquake. Stranded tourists gather in front of a ticket office after their flights were cancelled a day after the quake. A taxi is buried under debris from a collapsed building in Thamel. A collapsed building in Kathmandu following the earthquake. A collapsed building in Kathmandu, where more than 300 were killed. A digger clears debris from a collapsed building in Kathmandu. Emergency rescue workers find a survivor in the debris of Dharara tower after it collapsed in Kathmandu. A bloodied monk is carried to safety by rescue workers and members of the public. Thousands panic in the immediate aftermath of the earthquake in Kathmandu. Thousands of people crowd an intersection as aftershocks hit Kathmandu. The body of a victim is carried out on a stretcher from a collapsed building. A collapsed building in Kathmandu. People survey a site damaged by an earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal. The body of a victim is carried from the rubble. People sit with their belongings outside a damaged temple in Bashantapur Durbar Square. People work to rescue trapped people inside a temple in Bashantapur Durbar Square after an earthquake hit Kathmandu. People work to rescue trapped people inside a temple in Bashantapur Durbar Square after an earthquake in Kathmandu. People survey a site damaged by an earthquake in Kathmandu. A car is seen next to a collapsed house in Tibet, one of the many surrounding areas affected by the magnitude 7.8 earthquake that struck Nepal. Rescuers help injured residents to get to safe area in Xigaze Prefecture, Tibet, after a 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit Nepal. An Indian security personnel stands near a collapsed house in Siliguri, India, caused by the 7.8 magnitude that struck Nepal and parts of northern India. An injured boy is taken to hospital in Siliguri, India, after a massive earthquake struck Nepal, affecting all the nations surrounding it. A man walks past damage caused by the powerful 7.8 magnitude earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal. Injured people receive treatment outside the Medicare Hospital in Kathmandu, Nepal. An injured man receives treatment outside the Medicare Hospital in Kathmandu, Nepal. A collapsed building is seen in Nepal's capital Kathmandu after a powerful 7.8 magnitude struck. A strong earthquake has hit Nepal's capital and the densely populated Kathmandu Valley causing extensive damage. People stand on the runway outside the Tribhuvan International Airport, in Kathmandu, Nepal, after a massive 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck the region. People stand on the runway outside the International Terminal after the earthquake hit in Kathmandu, Nepal. People wait at a school after a 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck, in Kathmandu, Nepal. People wait at a school after a 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck, in Kathmandu, Nepal. 1 of 35 « Previous « Previous Next » Next »
84.txt:Some charities are assembling disaster teams - based on the assumption that sanitation, shelter and medical help are urgently required - but the most convenient pathway into Nepal is not available because the international airport in Kathmandu has been shut down by the quake.
84.txt:Local hospitals were already filling with injured residents, and Kathmandu's international airport was shut down, hampering initial relief efforts in the isolated mountainous country.
84.txt:Neighbouring Pakistan has offered help, and an international aid effort is likely to begin once Kathmandu's international airport can be reopened.
852.txt:Rescuers and medical staff were also making their way to other parts of the country, but the congestion at the airport has slowed down their deployment.
85.txt:Prime minister Sushil Koirala, who was attending a summit in Jakarta, tried to rush back home but made it as far as Bangkok where his connecting flight to Kathmandu was cancelled because the capital’s international airport was shut down.
862.txt:But it was unclear where or how those aircraft might land, because the country’s only international airport was shut down and all communications networks had been lost.
86.txt:Within hours, an Indian Air Force C-130 landed at at Katmandu's airport with 39 disaster relief workers and 3.5 metric tons of supplies, according to a spokesman for the Ministry of Defense.
86.txt:Dhany Osman, an editor with The Straits Times of Singapore said he was at Katmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport when the quake struck.
872.txt:With no electricity, Kathmandu, the capital of Nepal, looked a ghost town with rains pounding the city, forcing the closure of the airport where chaotic scenes were witnessed with stranded foreign tourists desperate to go home.
872.txt:Local hospitals are rapidly filling with injured residents, and Kathmandu’s international airport remains shut.
872.txt:IndiGo, SpiceJet flights do not land in Kathmandu and return as ATC personnel at airport there evacuated following aftershocks. — Press Trust of India (@PTI_News) April 26, 2015
877.txt:Rescuers dug with their bare hands and bodies piled up in Nepal today after an earthquake devastated the heavily crowded Kathmandu valley, killing over 1,800, and triggered a deadly avalanche on Mount Everest.Army office Santosh Nepal led a group of rescuers that worked all night to open a passage into a collapsed building in the capital of Kathmandu. They had to use pick axes because bulldozers could not get through the ancient city's narrow streets."We believe there are still people trapped inside," he told Reuters, pointing at concrete debris and twisted reinforcement rods that was once a three-storey residential building.Among the capital's landmarks destroyed in the earthquake was the 60-metre (200-foot) Dharahara Tower, built in 1832 for the queen of Nepal, with a viewing balcony that had been open to visitors for the last 10 years.A jagged stump was all that was left of the lighthouse-like structure. As bodies were pulled from the ruins, a policeman said up to 200 people had been trapped inside.Bodies were still arriving at one hospital in Kathmandu, where police officer Sudan Shreshtha said his team had brought 166 bodies overnight."I am tired and exhausted, but I have to work and have the strength," Shreshtha told Reuters as an ambulance brought three more victims to the Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital.Outside, a 30-year-old woman who had been widowed wailed: "Oh Lord, oh God, why did you take him alone? Take me along with him also."Authorities also scrambled to provide shelter in the capital, Kathmandu, for thousands of people who spent the night outside in freezing temperatures and patchy rain, too afraid to return to their damaged homes.People milled about in parks and streets strewn with rubble. The 7.9 magnitude quake struck at midday on Saturday at a busy time of year for the tourism-reliant country's trekking and climbing season, with an estimated 300,000 foreign tourists in the country.The government planned to pitch tents and turn schools and other public buildings into shelters, said Rameshwor Dangal, a home ministry official. It would also re-open roads and send helicopters to rescue people.Nepal's police put the death toll at 1,896, with about 4,700 injured. At least 400 were killed in the capital, a city of about 1 million people where many homes are old, flimsy and packed close together.Foreign climbers and their Nepalese guides around Mount Everest were caught by the tremors and a huge avalanche that claimed the highest toll of any disaster on the world's highest mountain.Seventeen bodies were recovered on Mount Everest base camp and 61 were injured when part of the base camp was engulfed by the snowslide, Ang Tshering Sherpa, president of the Nepal Mountaineering Association, told Reuters.A first helicopter took off from Kathmandu today morning to airlift the injured after flights were delayed by cloudy weather, Sherpa said.Two light helicopters were shuttling injured from base camp to a lower altitude, from where they could be evacuated back to the capital, emergency officials at Kathmandu airport said.Hospitals across the impoverished nation of 28 million people struggled to cope with its worst quake in 81 years. They expected a fresh influx of patients on Sunday but medical supplies were running low.Kathmandu's Bir Hospital had received 300 to 350 patients with serious injuries through Saturday, and most of them died, said paramedic Dinesh Chaudhary. He said the hospital was procuring medicines from shops outside.The earthquake, centred 50 miles (80 km) east of the second city, Pokhara, was all the more destructive for being shallow.Rescue operations had still not begun in towns in some remote areas.Across the city, rescuers scrabbled through destroyed buildings, among them ancient, wooden Hindu temples."I can see three bodies of monks trapped in the debris of a collapsed building near a monastery," Indian tourist Devyani Pant told Reuters. "We are trying to pull the bodies out and look for anyone who is trapped."Neighbouring India, where over 40 people were reported killed in the quake and its aftershocks, sent military aircraft to Nepal with medical equipment and relief teams. It also said it had dispatched 285 members of its National Disaster Response Force.In Tibet, the death toll climbed to 17, according to a tweet from China's state news agency, Xinhua.International aid groups readied staff to go to Nepal to help provide clean water, sanitation and emergency food, while the United States, Britain and Pakistan were among countries providing search-and-rescue experts.More than 1,000 climbers were on Everest at the start of their season when disaster struck.Romanian climber Alex Gavan tweeted on Saturday that there had been a "huge earthquake then huge avalanche" at Everest base camp, forcing him to run for his life.In a later tweet he made a desperate appeal for a helicopter to fly in and evacuate climbers who had been hurt: "Many dead. Much more badly injured. More to die if not heli asap."In the Annapurna mountain range, where scores were killed in the nation's worst trekking accident last year, many hikers were stranded after the quake, according to messages on social media, but no deaths there had been reported.Nepal, sandwiched between India and China, has had its share of natural disasters. Its worst earthquake in 1934 killed more than 8,500 people.
879.txt:Most of the area were without power and water Sunday, but with Kathamandu airport reopened, first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. Workers were sending out tents and relief goods in trucks and helicopters, said disaster management official Rameshwar Dangal.
87.txt:Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who was attending a summit in Jakarta, tried to rush back home but made it as far as Bangkok where his connecting flight to Kathmandu was cancelled because the capital's international airport was shut for commercial flights.
889.txt:Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who was attending a summit in Jakarta, tried to rush back home but made it as far as Bangkok where his connecting flight to Kathmandu was canceled because the capital's international airport was shut down for commercial flights.
892.txt:Nepal quake: Passengers shove and trip over each other as they flee airport terminal
892.txt:It was noon and my girlfriend and I were at the Tribhuvan International Airport's boarding gate 3 for our flight from Kathmandu to Kuala Lumpur, when the terminal building began to shake.
892.txt:Dhany Osman, a sub-editor with The Straits Times, was in Nepal with his girlfriend. They were waiting for their flight to Kuala Lumpur when the quake struck on Saturday, April 25, 2015. Passengers shoved and rushed out of the terminal at Tribhuvan International Airport. (Dhany Osman/The Straits Times)
892.txt:Debris left behind at Nepal`s Tribhuvan International Airport following a 7.9-magnitude earthquake on April 25, 2015. (Dhany Osman/The Straits Times)
892.txt:I tried telling people around us to calm down but everyone kept shoving one another to get out. So we found a corner to wait until the crowd cleared, along with two elderly tourists.After a minute or so, the tremors subsided. By then, many passengers and the ground crew were outside the terminal building, on the tarmac.After a while, many of them went back into the terminal building, but they ran out again whenever there was an aftershock.Andrea and I chose to stay on the tarmac, nipping in quickly to use the toilet and back out again.There was a lot of dust floating about outside the terminal building following the quake, and every 10 to 15 minutes, we would feel an aftershock, which sent people into a tizzy again.Two hours after the quake, at 2 p.m., there was still no information on the status of outgoing flights. However, a few flights from Yeti Airlines began landing, each to applause from the people around.At 2:10 p.m., we were asked to board our plane, the reason being that it would be more comfortable for us on the aircraft.One of our fellow passengers was Australian actress Brittni Giles, 27, who was in Nepal working on a documentary on motorcycle trekking.She told me: "My friend and I were waiting in the corridor of the airport leading to the tarmac when we felt the earth rumbling beneath our feet. We could hear cracks forming in the building, followed by people screaming and running out onto the tarmac."I used to live in Japan so I'm quite familiar with earthquakes. I looked up at the hills and saw all the dust and realized it must have been a pretty big one."My friends are still in the city (Kathmandu) and they are all right. They are helping to pull people out of the rubble."This was my first trip to Nepal and I had been looking forward to visiting this Shangri-La in a mountain valley with Andrea.We spent two days in Kathmandu, visiting the Durbar squares; enjoying the chaos of Thamel, a backpackers' haunt; wandering through the streets of the ancient city of Bhaktapur; and enjoying the local food - lots of dahl bat.We also did a five-day trek in the Himalayas.Along the way, we got to see how the Nepali people lived. Most of those we met were soft-spoken, humble folk, including our guide Diwan Gaire, 26, who took care of us.Businesses were run in a welcoming, laid-back fashion, with minimal touting.I wish the people of Nepal strength as they recover from this tragedy, and hope they receive the aid they need to do so.By Dhany Osman(The Straits Times)
894.txt:Following the quake, Kathmandu's international airport was shut down.
89.txt:Authorities closed Kathmandu's international airport and diverted flights. Across Asia perhaps 100 million people felt the quake, the USGS said.
900.txt:At 5.35am Sunday, Ms Murni indicated Singapore consular officials had gotten in touch with her. She posted: " Earthquake update: 2-second tremor again. Embassy called earlier to advise me to stay put and keep close to access to water and food. Advised not to go to airport yet as it's still chaotic, plus the airport is really small. Embassy will try to take me home as soon as possible."
900.txt:She said she spent Saturday night camping at the airport with her husband: "People knew none of the flights were going to take off so they started setting up camp here and there. And we chose a nice grassy patch away from any structures. We spent the night out there in the cold - but some trekkers around us gave us jackets and blankets."
900.txt:SilkAir said the incident was due to a delay in an earlier flight, caused by traffic delays and congestion at the Kathmandu airport.
904.txt:18/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese girl injured in the earthquake holds the hand of her mother inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
904.txt:19/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese victims of the earthquake lie inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
904.txt:24/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded man on a makeshift stretcher to a waiting Indian air force helicopter as they evacuate victims of the earthquake from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal
904.txt:25/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person carries a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance after the child and mother were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu
904.txt:26/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person walks carrying a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance as the mother follows after they were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu
904.txt:With Kathmandu airport reopened, the first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. The first to respond were Nepal's neighbors — India, China and Pakistan, all of which have been jockeying for influence over the landlocked nation. Nepal remains closest to India, with which it shares deep political, cultural and religious ties.
904.txt:Workers were sending out tents and relief goods in trucks and helicopters and setting up shelters, said disaster management official Rameshwar Dangal. Mukesh Kafle, the head of the Nepal Electricity Authority, said power was restored to main government offices, the airport and hospitals.
909.txt:USA Today reports that over 2,500 people are confirmed dead after the 7.8 earthquake that rocked Nepal early Saturday, April 25. The news organization pointed out that rescue efforts are still viable because Kathmandu's international airport is still functional and some roads from India are still navigable, even with a 6.8 aftershock on Sunday, April 26.
909.txt:"That means supplies could potentially come in overland from India. That is a positive sign," said Save the Children's Ben Pickering. The British humanitarian adviser added, "The airport opening is a small miracle."
915.txt:From Twitter, it sounds as if the incredibly dangerous Lukla Airport is open, and that it be used as a Helicopter base to get to Base Camp 1. We should know more by tomorrow about how bad it really is up there.
918.txt:The quake ripped through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country's only international airport, which was briefly closed.
91.txt:Following the quake, Kathmandu’s international airport was shut down.
921.txt:He was a Google engineer and avid climber who sought to take the company's Street View project to the world's tallest mountains.On Saturday, Dan Fredinburg was at a base camp on Mount Everest when a powerful earthquake in Nepal set off an avalanche. Fredinburg was killed, Google said in a statement posted on its website."Sadly, we lost one of our own in this tragedy," the statement said. "Dan Fredinburg, a longtime member of the Privacy organization in Mountain View, was in Nepal with three other Googlers, hiking Mount Everest. He has passed away. The other three Googlers with him are safe, and we are working to get them home quickly."Shortly before, an Instagram post on Fredinburg's account went up: "This is Dan's little sister Megan," the message began. "I regret to inform all who loved him that during the avalanche on Everest early this morning our Dan suffered from a major head injury and didn't make it."According to his LinkedIn page, Fredinburg had worked at Google since 2007, where he described himself as "Google Adventurer." He worked on Google's privacy team, recently helping to advise on high-profile projects, including the self-driving car and Project Loon, an attempt to use stratospheric balloons to deliver high-speed Internet to rural areas and the developing world.Fredinburg had led a number of expeditions to the Everest area, taking images for Google's Street View project. In 2013, he announced the availability of imagery of famous mountains in Google Maps."Now you can explore some of the most famous mountains on Earth, including Aconcagua (South America), Kilimanjaro (Africa), Mount Elbrus (Europe) and Everest Base Camp (Asia) on Google Maps," he wrote in a blog post in 2013."While there's nothing quite like standing on the mountain," he added, "with Google Maps you can instantly transport yourself to the top of these peaks and enjoy the sights without all of the avalanches, rock slides, crevasses and dangers from altitude and weather that mountaineers face."On March 30, Fredinburg's Twitter and Instagram accounts showed a picture of an orange water bottle with a carabiner dangling from it in a room full of climbing gear. It read: "2015 Everest Expedition fully underway. Gear is ready. I am ready. Now spending some time thinking about how this year's climb can be as impactful as possible!"He went on to document Kathmandu and Lukla, Nepal. "The most dangerous airport in the world (due to lack of sufficient runway)," he wrote of Lukla, accompanying a cockpit photo of a short runway surrounded by buildings.On April 6, Fredinburg posted: "First views of Everest in the distance got us screaming and dancing like idiots."On April 10, he visited Lama Geshe, a local religious leader, "to get blessed for our journey."He documented yaks, Sherpas and an "unseasonal snowstorm" that required Fredinburg and his team to dig out their tent on the morning of April 20.His last Instagram post, on Friday, said: "Day 22: Ice training with@micbattelli means frequent stops for morning cappuccino, regardless of danger."The next message came on Saturday, when his sister wrote: "All our love and thanks to those who shared this life with our favorite hilarious strong-willed man. He was and is everything to us."
926.txt:BENGALURU: A day after an earthquake ravaged Nepal, at least a couple of hundred people from Karnataka are suspected to be stranded in the Himalayan nation as on Sunday. However, no one from the state figured in the earthquake casualties till late in the night.Rescue officials from Karnataka said they have identified that at least 336 people from 18 districts of the state were in the land-locked nation when the temblor's fury unraveled on Saturday. About 95 of them have been evacuated to New Delhi since then.Among the stranded is a 29-year-old mountaineer, JP Nagar resident CM Praveen, who is on an expedition to Mount Everest. Praveen and his team-mates are, however, safe in Base I camp, about 19,500 feet above sea level.About 150 people stranded in Nepal have returned to New Delhi in batches through road and special Indian Air Force flights. A batch of 82 people belonging to Karnataka reached New Delhi in an IAF aircrafts. Officials said another 35 people from Haralahalli in Mandya District are on their way to Gorakpur and added that another batch of 30 people from Belagavi are also on their way to the Indian border.Those who have reached Delhi are being given train tickets, while some of them have opted to fly back home on their own. A family of five from Bengaluru became the first quake-hit to return home as they landed in the city and drove straight to their JP Nagar residence in the afternoon.Three groups of tourists from the state have been reported to be in safe locations. A group of 92 tourists from the city have reached Varanasi, 35 from Mandya have reached Gorakhpur and 30 from Belagavi have reached a border town in Bihar, said Sarojamma, deputy secretary, revenue department.According to sources in state government, some callers have reported groups that have gone missing. The state's disaster control room officials said as there are many overlaps in the information they have received, they haven't been able to freeze on the exact number of people from Karnataka stranded in Nepal."In some calls, we were just told a group of 15 people are stuck there. While we have names of the 336 people who were or still are in Nepal, the numbers could be much more," said a disaster control room official.The two officers sent by Karnataka, Pankaj Kumar Pandey, IAS and Umesh Kumar, IPS, to oversee the operations had to return before landing in Kathmandu on Sunday afternoon as the aerodrome was shut following the second round of tremors felt in the area."Once again in the evening our officers flew to Kathmandu and they are expected to land anytime soon in the Nepalese capital. They will be overseeing the rescue work during the coming days. There are many people at the Kathmandu airport already," said Kaushik Mukherjee, chief secretary, Karnataka.
928.txt:The quake ripped through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country’s only international airport, which was briefly closed.
929.txt:With Kathmandu airport reopened, the first flights began delivering aid supplies. The first to respond were Nepal’s neighbours – India, China and Pakistan, all of which have been jockeying for influence over the landlocked nation.
929.txt:Mukesh Kafle, the head of the Nepal Electricity Authority, said power was restored to main government offices, the airport and hospitals.
92.txt:Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who was attending a summit in Jakarta, tried to rush back home but made it as far as Bangkok where his connecting flight to Kathmandu was cancelled because the capital’s international airport was shut down for commercial flights.
933.txt:The aftershock sparked screams and sent terrified people into the streets of Kathmandu. At the city's airport, the floor rolled with the tremor. Passengers rushed past the immigration desks and customs officials abandoned their seats, rushing to take cover along a row of pillars as the building shook and lights briefly went out.
93.txt:Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who was attending a summit in Jakarta, tried to rush back home but made it as far as Bangkok where his connecting flight to Kathmandu was cancelled because the capital’s international airport was shut down for commercial flights.
940.txt:"We all rushed out to the open and the next moment a huge wall of snow just piled on me," he said in a brief airport interview before being driven to a hospital. "I managed to dig out of what could easily have been my grave. I wiggled and used my hands as claws to dig as much as I could. I was suffocating, I could not breathe. But I knew I had to survive."
943.txt:The aftershock sparked screams and sent terrified people into the streets of Kathmandu. At the city's airport, the floor rolled with the tremor. Passengers rushed past the immigration desks and customs officials abandoned their seats, rushing to take cover along a row of pillars as the building shook and lights briefly went out.
947.txt:NEW DELHI: India's rescue and relief operations in Nepal moved into high gear on Sunday with the government sending another 13 military aircraft with rescue personnel and relief material to Kathmandu. After a review meeting of top officials, called by the prime minister, the government decided to send an inter-ministerial team of officials led by an additional secretary to coordinate the massive operation in Nepal. "Rapid rescue and relief is our primary mission at present," foreign secretary S Jaishankar told reporters on Sunday."We are sending a senior level team to Nepal to coordinate everything. This was decided in our meeting with the PM and senior ministers today," he added.Indian armed forces along with National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), being the first foreign teams to reach Nepal, are at the forefront of rescue and relief work, named 'Operation Maitri'.For the Indian Army, which said it was prepared for the long haul in Nepal, there is also an emotional reason beyond the call of duty in a humanitarian crisis. Indian defence has had a 200-year history of Gurkha soldiers from Nepal in the Army. Currently, there are around 40,000 Gurkha soldiers in the Indian Army and around 1.25 lakh retired Gurkha Regiment soldiers in Nepal. Sources said the Indian Army is moved by a sense of "payback".Incidentally, Army chief Gen Dalbir Singh Suhag, who spoke to his Nepalese counterpart Gen SJB Rana soon after the quake to kickstart rescue operations, is an officer of the Gurkha Rifles Regiment. He is also the honorary chief of the Nepalese Army. On Sunday, Gen Suhag cancelled his scheduled trip to Sri Lanka (April 27-30) to monitor rescue operations in Nepal."We are also working along with our Gurkha ex-servicemen interface for guidance, relief and rescue," an Army spokesperson said.Sunday's rescue efforts in Nepal were hampered by powerful aftershocks measuring 6.9 on the Richter scale. With its epicenter in Kodari, the quake forced Kathmandu airport to shut down for a few hours. Despite this, India has mounted a mammoth relief effort, with 13 aircraft, including C-17, IL-76 and AN-32 carrying food, drinking water, blankets and medical supplies, making it into Kathmandu by Sunday evening.Six IAF Mi-17 helicopters flew virtually non-stop since the morning to rescue around 200 people in the Himalayan country. "The helicopters also have Nepalese Army pilots on board to help our pilots familiarize with the terrain. Six persons, for instance, were evacuated by an Mi-17 from the badly-damaged Dhuncha helipad, 50 km north of Kathmandu. Apart from the six Mi-17s already operating in Nepal, six more Indian helicopters are on standby," said an IAF officer.Briefing reporters after the PM's review meeting, top officials - foreign secretary, home secretary, defence secretary and the NDMA chief - said India was currently focused on rescue operations in Kathmandu, before spreading out to other parts of Nepal.Three mobile hospitals have been transported to Nepal, and 10 NDRF teams are at work, officials said.The returning aircraft have been evacuating stranded Indians as well as nationals from other countries. So far, India has brought back almost 1,000 people in military aircraft. In addition, Air India has announced it would run extra flights on reduced fares, while private airlines Jet Airways and Indigo have pitched in with extra planes. More helicopters have been placed on standby, Jaishankar said.IAF aircraft on Sunday also carried 8,000 thousand blankets, 500 tents, 14 tones of food (noodles), 34 paramedics, 100 stretches, 1 tonne of medicine and six tonnes of prepared food.Taking cognizance of the request of the Nepalese government for oxygen on account of problems in the Kathmandu oxygen plant, additional cylinders are being dispatched.Jaishankar said the rescue operation was not without its challenges - phone networks and internet was erratic, which made communication difficult. The phone numbers at the control rooms set up by the Indian government have been overwhelmed by the number of callers, so the government has resorted to social media and emails to register rescue and evacuation requests.The government is currently using Kathmandu airport but will gradually look at using other airports too, Jaishankar said. Questioned about reconstruction, he indicated India would play a big part in that as well.With thousands clamouring to be taken out and crowding the Kathmandu airport, government appealed for patience. Meanwhile, Jaishankar said buses would also be used to remove people from Nepal. The roads were still motorable, but they were clogged with traffic. So the going would be slow, but this would open up another channel of evacuation.Baburam Bhattarai, former Nepal PM, described it as the greatest disaster in 80 years. Expressing appreciation of support and assistance from India and China, he said reports from the more remote areas suggested even greater damage and loss of life, particularly in the mountainous areas.Indian Army Everest Expedition was training at Base Camp when the earthquake struck, said sources. Their equipment was buried in the avalanche, but the team is safe and has helped in recovery of bodies of other foreign climbers. As many as 19 bodies and 61 injured persons were rescued by the Indian Army Expedition Team.
949.txt:New Delhi, April 26: Teetering on a precipice, the helipad looked like it was about to cave in. An Indian Air Force helicopter flying from Kathmandu circled twice above the helipad at Dhuncha, 50km north of Kathmandu, this afternoon. There were villagers at Dhuncha wanting to be evacuated. Fresh tremors had loosened the earth and the helipad itself was cracked. The Indian pilots, with another from the Nepal Army to guide them, decided the helipad may not be able to take the weight of their machine. But down they went, hesitantly and hovered inches above the ground, taking in passengers one by one before flying to safety. As the IAF and the Indian Army fan out with other rescuers, medical teams, salvagers and caregivers across the Himalayan republic, the magnitude of the disaster and the risks involved in the rescue are gradually beginning to dawn. Tens of thousands of people were in or were headed to Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu this afternoon where a glut of military and commercial planes created congestion. The toll in the quakes in Nepal since yesterday was estimated to have crossed 2,400 by 7 this evening. An exact count of the number of Indians in Nepal is being "ruled out", largely because of the freedom of movement that citizens of either country have. The Indian Army, that is calling its effort in Nepal "Operation Maitri", today pumped troops, equipment and helicopters into Nepal with the army chief, General Dalbir Singh, himself a Gorkha Rifles regiment officer, calling his counterpart General S.J.B. Rana in the morning and offering assistance. Two major generals have been posted to Pokhara and Kathmandu each to coordinate the effort. The Indian and Nepal army chiefs are also honorary chiefs of one another's armies. A multi-national coordination centre has been set up with a branch headquarters in Pokhara. Army sources said six of 18 medical teams that have been tasked to help with the relief efforts in Nepal have been deployed. Rain and thunderstorms that forced closure of Kathmandu airport for about four hours in the afternoon delayed deployment. The army is also sending 10 engineer task forces with machinery to clear roads and debris. The troops have taken along with them 10,000 blankets and 1,000 tents are on standby. The army and the air force have also forward-deployed helicopters and planes to Gorakhpur and Bareilly. On a special request from the Nepal government because of problems in the Kathmandu Oxygen plant, the army has been asked to take cylinders of the life-giving gas for distribution. An Indian Army Everest Expedition that survived two avalanches at the base camp had till today extricated the bodies of 19 climbers of different nationalities and rescued 61 mountaineers. The army team has lost almost all its equipment in the avalanches. The army said it was coordinating efforts with former soldiers - of the Gorkha regiments in the Indian Army - "for guidance, relief and rescue". IAF helicopters that have been moved to Kathmandu and Pokhara have flown 37 sorties over 23 hours since yesterday, defence spokesperson Sitanshu Kar said. The helicopters have evacuated 203 people. Fixed-wing aircraft of the IAF have flown back more than 1,100 people from Kathmandu to airports in India.
958.txt:But the airport was closed, roads and bridges damaged, and tons of rubble are blocking the streets and alleys of Kathmandu. Water supply pipes, electricity generating sub-stations, bridges, treatment plants – all these things will be affected, and food, water, fuel and medicines will be immediately in short-supply. From today people will start skipping meals and to rely on friends and relatives for support. Some will be moving to areas they consider more safe, where they will set up camps. Others will choose to stay close to their belongings and shattered homes, perhaps waiting for missing relatives. They will start selling assets in “distress sales”. They will use what food, cash and property they have just to get by. They will start borrowing. Many poor Nepalese will already be in debt.
962.txt:Till Sunday morning the IAF planes had fetched 546 Indian citizens, including several infants, back from quake-hit Nepal. The operations had to be stalled between 1:30 pm and 4:00 pm, since the Kathmandu airport was shut temporarily due to fresh tremors.
963.txt:A separate group booked by Mr Taylor’s company for Mera peak had descended due to bad weather and was en route to Lukla airport over the past few days, she said.
963.txt:“Lee got a phone call at about 2.40pm from Christine and Ellen to say they had borrowed a phone, that they were in the airport and they were in the queue. That’s all I know really but they seem to be okay,” she said.
964.txt:The quake ripped through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country’s only international airport, which was briefly closed.
968.txt:The economy of Nepal, a nation of 27.8 million people, relies heavily on tourism, principally trekking and Himalayan mountain climbing. With Kathmandu airport reopened, the first aid flights began delivering aid supplies.
968.txt:Mukesh Kafle, the head of the Nepal Electricity Authority, said power has been restored fully to main government offices, the airport and hospitals. But the damage to electricity cables and poles was making it difficult to restore power to many parts of the country, which has long been plagued by blackouts anyway.
969.txt:"I already told you that when I was at the airport that how the government would help the injured and the victims. I am going to Meerik now to meet family of deceased," she added.
96.txt:Kathmandu’s airport was closed, television and Internet services were disrupted, and phone and electricity lines were down.
972.txt:As planeloads of supplies, doctors and relief workers from neighboring countries arrived at Kathmandu's airport, thousands of Indians lined up outside in hopes of gaining a seat on a plane returning to New Delhi.
972.txt:With Kathmandu airport reopened, the first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. The first to respond were Nepal's neighbors—India, China and Pakistan, all of which have been jockeying for influence over the landlocked nation. Nepal remains closest to India, with which it shares deep political, cultural and religious ties.
972.txt:Mukesh Kafle, head of the Nepal Electricity Authority, said power was restored to main government offices, the airport and hospitals.
974.txt:Most areas were without power and water Sunday, but with Kathamandu airport reopened, first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. Workers were sending out tents and relief goods in trucks and helicopters, said disaster management official Rameshwar Dangal.
976.txt:“Everybody is afraid and screaming he said, but the communications are still up. The airport is closed, but he can still text us,” she explained.
977.txt:With Kathmandu airport reopened, the first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. The first to respond were Nepal's neighbors—India, China and Pakistan, all of which have been jockeying for influence over the landlocked nation. Still, Nepal remains closest to India with which it shares deep political, cultural and religious ties.
977.txt:Mukesh Kafle, the head of the Nepal Electricity Authority, said power has been restored fully to main government offices, the airport and hospitals.
97.txt:Within hours, an Indian Air Force C-130 landed at at Katmandu's airport with 39 disaster relief workers and 3.5 metric tons of supplies, according to a spokesman for the Ministry of Defense.
97.txt:Dhany Osman, an editor with The Straits Times of Singapore said he was at Katmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport when the quake struck.
982.txt:Most areas were without power and water Sunday, but with Kathamandu airport reopened, first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. Workers were sending out tents and relief goods in trucks and helicopters, said disaster management official Rameshwar Dangal.
985.txt:With Kathmandu airport reopened, the first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. The first to respond were Nepal’s neighbours — India, China and Pakistan, all of which have been jockeying for influence over the landlocked nation. Still, Nepal, a Hindu majority nation, remains closest to India with which it shares deep political, cultural and religious ties.
985.txt:Mukesh Kafle, the head of the Nepal Electricity Authority, said power has been restored fully to main government offices, the airport and hospitals.
991.txt:MOUNT EVEREST: Helicopters airlifted injured climbers off Mount Everest on Sunday after a devastating avalanche, triggered by the quake, killed at least 22 people, an AFP team at the scene reported.At least six helicopters landed at the base camp in Nepal, the agency's Kathmandu bureau chief Ammu Kannampilly reported after weather conditions improved overnight. "People being stretchered out as choppers land — half a dozen this morning," Kannampilly said in a text message.An Indian Army team, training at the base camp when Saturday's temblor hit, helped pull out the bodies of 19 foreign climbers. Survivors warned that dozens of people may still be missing and were almost certainly dead in what is now the worst tragedy at Everest. The avalanche struck near one of the famed mountain's most dangerous spots, between the Khumbu Icefall and the base camp.Pictures taken by AFP showed an enormous cloud of snow and debris cascading down the mountain as survivors recalled the horrifying moment that disaster struck on Saturday."I ran and it just flattened me. I tried to get up and it flattened me again," Singapore-based marine biologist George Foulsham told AFP at base camp."I couldn't breathe, I thought I was dead. When I finally stood up, I couldn't believe it passed me over and I was almost untouched."Ang Tshering Sherpa, president of the Nepal mountaineering association, said the nationalities of those killed was unclear, "but most of them would be foreigners". Sherpa said there were more than 800 people at different places when the avalanche, triggered by a massive earthquake, struck on Saturday.Fearful climbers again reported smaller avalanches on the mountain, at camp one above base camp, on Sunday after a 6.7-magnitude aftershock hit Nepal around lunchtime."Aftershock @ 1pm! Horrible here in camp 1. Avalanches on 3 sides. C1 a tiny island. We worry about icefall team below.. Alive?" UK-based climber Daniel Mazur tweeted.As the first stunned survivors of the avalanche reached Kathmandu, they said that dozens of people may still be missing and were almost certainly dead."The snow swept away many tents and people,'' said Gyelu Sherpa, a sunburned guide among the first group of 15 injured survivors to reach Kathmandu.Bhim Bahadur Khatri, 35, a cook and a Sherpa, was preparing food in a meal tent when the avalanche struck."We all rushed out to the open and the next moment a huge wall of snow just piled on me,'' he said in a brief airport interview. agenciesThe first group of survivors from the avalanche were flown to Kathmandu on Sunday and taken to hospitals. None appeared to have life-threatening injuries.
992.txt:Twenty-two climbers had been ferried to a lower altitude, from where the first 18 would be evacuated to Kathmandu by a heavy helicopter that took off from the capital's airport in the morning after heavy clouds cleared.
99.txt:Within hours, an Indian Air Force C-130 landed at at Katmandu's airport with 39 disaster relief workers and 3.5 metric tons of supplies, according to a spokesman for the Ministry of Defense.
99.txt:Dhany Osman, an editor with The Straits Times of Singapore said he was at Katmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport when the quake struck.
crack.txt:147.txt:In Nepals Lamjung, the epicentre of the quake, many buildings have been flattened. There are reports of cracks developing at the Kathmandu airport. Flights have been diverted to India.
crack.txt:1587.txt:"Apparently the airport tarmac is cracked," she said.
crack.txt:164.txt:Juhu couple Sahil Mane and Tara Kaushal landed in Kathmandu last Monday on a two-week vacation. Sahil, a photographer, and Tara, a media consultant, hadn't had a holiday in two years, and selected Nepal for an adrenalin rush, complete with treks and bike rides. Yesterday, 11.56 am Nepal time, they literally saw the world crumble in front of them.As the earthquake of a 7.9 magnitude hit Nepal - its worst in 80 years - Tara and Sahil were getting a tattoo done at Hotel Yak and Yeti, in the capital Kathmandu. First the lights went off, then came the tremors, and the reality hit them when they saw a man jumping from a window of a building opposite. That's when they realised it was serious trouble."It was crazy, the ground was shaking and the buildings were crumbling to dust in front of our eyes," Sahil said. "We rushed out and saw a man jumping from a building. We saw a huge crack in the middle of our hotel building. It had cracked from the middle. Several people were buried under the debris within minutes."The couple, like hundreds of thousands of people trapped in Kathmandu, have taken refuge in a park. No-one dares to venture indoors as there are warnings of more tremors. "We were attending a tattoo convention with more than 70 artists from all over the world when the chandeliers hanging from the roof began swinging wildly. "The hotels are shut, and people have lined the streets, parks, everywhere," Sahil said.The Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu was indefinitely shut on Saturday. However, by evening yesterday, the airlines announced the resumption of flights to Nepal from Sunday. A few airlines, such as SpiceJet, have been asked to keep aircraft ready to lift supplies and bring back stranded passengers.Around 60 people from Maharashtra are believed to be stranded in Nepal. Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis has directed state officials to keep in touch with them and assured all possible help, and a rescue team of 22 members from the Mumbai Fire Brigade are expected to fly to the Himalayan country."I have instructed the state officials to be in touch with tourists from Maharashtra in Nepal and to give all the support and help to them," Fadnavis tweeted.The Juhu couple said they were looking forward to get out of Nepal as soon as possible, as even water was scarce. Thousands of tourists have been stranded without food and water, the couple said, adding the people had pitched tents at the parks."As soon as we realised there was an earthquake, we started looking for water. Everything has been shut. As we walked the narrows streets, which resemble the by-lanes of Bandra, walls around us were collapsing. There are people from all over the world who are stranded. We are lucky that we had come prepared for the music festival, and carried tents, sleeping bags and sweaters," Sahil said.
crack.txt:1813.txt:One of the cracks ran through our hotel, splitting it in two. Everybody was panicking.” She and Nag decided to head to Hotel Yak and Yeti, where the tattoo convention was being held. They had heard that other attendees were going to gather there and then go to Kathmandu Airport.
crack.txt:1841.txt:"In the midst of all the destruction, we saw the extremes of human nature on one end there were people who cared only for their own lives, and on the opposite, were those who helped others without thinking," said Kritika Ajmani, a Mumbai-based blogger who witnessed Saturday's earthquake in Kathmandu.Ajmani was accompanied by Shubham Nag, both 24-year-old bloggers from Mumbai who had gone to attend the International Nepal Tattoo Convention from April 24-26. However, the convention attended by 2,000 tattoo artists from around the world - was cut short when the first tremors shook Kathmandu around 11.41 am.At the time, the duo was at Hotel Ambassador, where they were staying. When they saw the lobby's chandeliers shaking, they ran out onto the streets to see the enormous damage wrought by the quake. Ajmani, a Santacruz resident, said, "There were huge craters on the ground. One of the cracks ran through our hotel, splitting it in two. Everybody was panicking." She and Nag decided to head to Hotel Yak and Yeti, where the tattoo convention was being held. They had heard that other attendees were going to gather there and then go to Kathmandu Airport.They had to walk for miles to get there, as even when they managed to find a taxi, the roads were too congested. "Our only view en route was total destruction. There was a public hospital that had collapsed and people were dragging patients out from the rubble.The special forces were doing a commendable job of encouraging people and guiding them to the embassy," Nag an Andheri resident recalled. They reached the airport hours later, and finally checked in around 7.30 pm. But the ordeal was far from over; this was when they saw the people at their most vulnerable, said Ajmani.Most showed great lack of discipline and patience, and did not bother to help women, children or the elderly. "The authorities were calling out names of women, children and elderly who were to board the first flight to Delhi at 9 pm. But the people simply paid no heed and were forcing their way in.They almost ran over a six-year-old child in the stampede," she added. But if some were selfish, there were also those who were selfless. The child was saved by another youngster who got hurt in the process. A few guards and youths took charge of the situation and made a human chain, restricting the path of the crowd so people could board the plane in an orderly manner.Ajmani and Nag eventually boarded the third flight which left Kathmandu around 11.30 pm, after experiencing the trauma for nearly 12 hours. Now safe in Delhi and looking forward to returning home to Santacruz this evening, Ajmani said, "In those 12 hours, we saw the best and the worst of humanity. We learnt the value of human life and to what extent one would go to save it."
crack.txt:284.txt:KATHMANDU: According to information available, there was widespread devastation in Hanmandhoka area in the old area of Kathmandu.Several casualties were feared as buildings collapsed. At least two people were killed. A 15-year-old girl was killed when the wall of her home collapsed in a village near the border with Nepal. Another girl was killed by a falling statue in a town outside Kathmandu, according to Nepal 's state radio.Authorities said they were still trying to assess the situation.There was rubble where the buildings once stood. In at least one case, there was a long and wide crack on a metalled road.Initial reports indicated that telephone connectivity was snapped in and around Lamjung, which was the epicentre of the quake.There were reports of people with broken limbs being taken to hospital. Kathmandu airport is closed. Flights are reportedly being diverted to India.
crack.txt:3135.txt:MUMBAI: Bringing in his 64th birthday on Monday, two days after he witnessed the devastating aftermath of the Nepal earthquake, had a special significance for Kalyan resident Akshay Gajre. Recounting the anxious five hours that he and his wife spent till the Indian armed forces rescued them, Gajre said he was only too thankful to be alive.Gajre and his wife, Bharati (58), had gone to Nepal sightseeing with a tour organizer. There were 26 others in the group. "We were to fly out of Kathmandu on Saturday and were leaving the hotel for the airport when the tremors were first felt around 11.45am. There were many elderly people and all were nervous. Old structures were collapsing. Even RCC structures, like our hotel, started to develop cracks. Our group was shepherded into an open ground, where we took shelter for a few hours. But whenever we tried to head back to the bus (for the airport), there were fresh tremors, and we would be forced to run back to the ground," Garje told TOI.Around 4.30pm, the group finally reached the airport. "There were large crowds waiting to be rescued. The elderly were given priority. "Of the four aircraft that arrived, two filled up quickly. We were escorted into the third," Garje said. The couple reached here on Sunday.
crack.txt:3278.txt:» 11:00 a.m. (0515 GMT) The first aid shipments have reached Dhading district, close to the epicenter of the devastating earthquake in Nepal. U.N. food agency emergency officer Geoff Pinnock says the distribution in remote quake-hit villages will start Wednesday, but cautions it would take time. "Remember Katrina. It doesn't happen overnight," he said. In Gorkha, the neighboring district to the west, five cargo trucks filled with rice, cooking oil and sugar stood on a grassy field in Majuwa village waiting for a helicopter from Kathmandu to take the supplies to the hardest-hit areas of that district. The World Food Program also expects the delivery of high-energy biscuits, which will be send out to areas without enough water for cooking. A woman becomes emotional during a candle light vigil on Tuesday, April 28, 2015, in front of the Boulder County Courthouse in Boulder, Colo., in honor and memory of the victims of the catastrophic earthquake in Nepal which killed more than 4000 people and left thousands homeless. (Jeremy Papasso/The Daily Camera via AP) NO SALES (Jeremy Papasso/AP) — Katy Daigle, Majuwa, Nepal ——— 10:30 a.m. (0445 GMT) A man pulled from the rubble of a collapsed building in Kathmandu more than three days after the deadly Nepal earthquake says he drank his own urine to survive. Rishi Khanal tells The Associated Press that he had given up all hope of rescue as his lips cracked and his nails turned white. There were dead bodies around him and a terrible smell. But he kept banging on the rubble all around him and eventually this brought a French rescue team that extracted him after an operation lasting many hours. He's now being treated for leg injuries at a hospital in the capital the day after French rescuers found him and brought him out from a collapsed hotel. He had been buried for 82 hours. Advertisement — Rishi Lekhi, Kathmandu, Nepal —— 9:15 a.m. (0330 GMT) While many villages across Nepal are still waiting for rescue and relief teams, life in the capital, Kathmandu, is slowly returning to normal. Municipal workers on Wednesday began cleaning the streets, and the "kalimati bazaar" — the vegetable market — has reopened. Before first light, truckloads of fresh produce were unloaded and customers began to arrive. Shasha Shrestha, 8, holds a candle with the help of her grandmother Suren Shrestha, of Boulder, during a candle light vigil on Tuesday, April 28, 2015, in front of the Boulder County Courthouse in Boulder Colo., in honor and memory of the victims of the catastrophic earthquake in Nepal which killed more than 4000 people and left thousands homeless. (Jeremy Papasso/The Daily Camera via AP) NO SALES (Jeremy Papasso/AP) — Bernat Armangue, Kathmandu, Nepal ——— 9:00 a.m. (0315 GMT) Britain in sending additional 30 medics to treat the injured and heavy lifting equipment to move aid supplies off aircraft and ease congestion at Kathmandu airport. International Development Secretary Justine Greening says the additional support brings the total U.K. response to the earthquake to 15 million pounds ($23 million). ——— 8:00 a.m. (0215 GMT) Thousands of people are lining up at bus stations in Kathmandu where the government is providing free transportation for people hoping to travel to their hometowns and villages. The government has even deployed school buses to supplement the overstretched service. A man sleeps in his store with the shutters open in Kathmandu, Nepal, Tuesday, April 28, 2015. Across central Nepal, including in Kathmandu, the capital, hundreds of thousands of people are still living in the open without clean water or sanitation since Saturday?s massive earthquake, one of the worst to hit the South Asian nation in more than 80 years. (AP Photo/Niranjan Shrestha) (Niranjan Shrestha/AP) Many of the people from other districts who work in the capital have received little news of their families and loved ones since Saturday's magnitude 7.8 temblor, which killed more than 4,700 people and devastated the infrastructure including communication lines. Others are simply scared of staying on so close to the quake's epicenter. "I am hoping to get on a bus, any bus heading out of Kathmandu. I am too scared to be staying in Kathmandu. The house near my rented apartment collapsed. It was horrible. I have not gone indoors in many days. I would rather leave than a live life of fear in Kathmandu," said Raja Gurung, who was leaving for his home in the mountains of west Nepal. In this photo provided by World Vision, a house stands destroyed by Saturday?s earthquake at Paslang village in Gorkha municipality, Nepal, Monday, April 27, 2015. Reports received so far by the government and aid groups suggest that many communities perched on mountainsides are devastated or struggling to cope. Udav Prashad Timalsina, the top official for the Gorkha district, near the epicenter of Saturday's quake, said he was in desperate need of help. (Bishwo Ghimire/World Vision via AP) (Bishwo Ghimire/AP) Suresh Sah, a construction worker from southern Nepal, said that when the quake hit, "the first thing I thought about was my son back in the village. I have been trying to leave but there was no bus available. I just want to hold my family." — Binaj Gurubacharya, Kathmandu, Nepal ——— 8:00 a.m. (0215 GMT) Aid agencies, including World Vision, say they face huge challenges as they respond to the weekend's deadly earthquake. World Vision says the death toll — now at 4,700 — will likely rise as response teams continue to trek to the most remote areas near the epicenter. Nepalese volunteers unload relief material brought in an Indian air force helicopter for victims of Saturday?s earthquake at Trishuli Bazar in Nepal, Monday, April 27, 2015. The death toll from Nepal's earthquake is expected to rise depended largely on the condition of vulnerable mountain villages that rescue workers were still struggling to reach two days after the disaster. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri) (Altaf Qadri/AP) The group says aid workers are hindered by a congested airport in capital Kathmandu, impassable and destroyed roads which have left several remote villages still largely cut off. The group says international aid agencies are also stretched thin as they respond to multiple humanitarian crises across the world including Syria and South Sudan, Phillip Ewert, Operations Director for World Vision in Nepal, says, "we know the clock is ticking for those impacted by the earthquake in some of the most remote areas — aid is a matter of life or death for many at this point." — Binaj Gurubacharya, Kathmandu, Nepal ——— 1:30 a.m. (1945 GMT) Some Virginia-based organizations in the United States have joined the earthquake relief efforts in Nepal. Operation Blessing International says it has brought several portable hand-held water treatment units developed by partner Aqua Research LLC. The device disinfects up to 80 gallons of water using only table salt and a single battery charge. The Christian Broadcasting Network says it has humanitarian workers assisting authorities in Nepal with rescue efforts and other needs. The organization also plans to set up a medical outreach to treat the injured and provide temporary shelters for families whose homes have been destroyed. Saturday's magnitude-7.8 earthquake killed more than 4,700 people and injured over 8,000. . Both Operation Blessing and the Christian Broadcasting Network are based in Virginia Beach ——— 1:20 a.m. (19:35 GMT) Guiding companies say all climbers on the Nepal side of Mount Everest have left the mountain and the climbing season is over following a deadly avalanche that swept through base camp following the huge earthquake in Nepal. Gordon Janow is director of programs at Seattle-based Alpine Ascents International. He says most Everest summits occur between May 10 and 20, so it's too late to think about trying to go back up the mountain before monsoon season. The huge avalanche on Everest that killed 18 and injured dozens happened after Saturday's magnitude-7.8 earthquake killed at least 4,600 people in the Himalayan nation. Every year hundreds of people attempt to scale the world's tallest mountain, with many paying tens of thousands of dollars to guide companies that attempt to get them to the 29,029-foot (8,850-meter) summit. — Martha Bellisle, Seattle ——— 12:05 a.m. (1820 GMT) The U.S. State Department has identified the third of four Americans it had announced were killed in the Nepal earthquake. Besides the two identified yesterday, State Department spokesman Jeff Rathke said Marisa Eve Girawong also was killed. Those announced Monday were Thomas Ely Taplin and Vinh B. Truong. The fourth has not yet been identified. — Wendy Benjaminson, Washington ——— 11:20 p.m. Tuesday (1735 GMT) An official says Nepal's earthquake was picked up as far away as Antarctica and Argentina by seismic stations that monitor the globe for underground nuclear testing. The executive secretary of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization told reporters Tuesday that 70 stations in all detected Saturday's magnitude-7.8 earthquake. Lassina Zerbo says the monitoring stations can pick up the effects of an earthquake, but they are not able to predict one. Zerbo spoke on the sidelines of a United Natinos gathering of world powers to discuss progress toward a world free of nuclear weapons. — Cara Anna, United Nations
crack.txt:399.txt:She told me: "My friend and I were waiting in the corridor of the airport leading to the tarmac when we felt the earth rumbling beneath our feet. We could hear cracks forming in the building, followed by people screaming and running out onto the tarmac.
crack.txt:4585.txt:WFP dedicated staff and emergency members, working on little sleep and nothing more than crackers, have been relocated to the airport where we are arranging the distribution of food and relief hub operations. The challenges we face are minimal compared to those greatly affected.
crack.txt:459.txt:More than 800 people were killed in Nepal and 34 in various parts of India as a powerful earthquake measuring 7.9 on the Richter scale rocked the two South Asian countries, resulting in a massive loss of life and property. Most of the fatalities have been reported from the Kathmandu valley though there is little information pouring in from outlying areas of the region. Reports quoting Nepal police say that at least 876 people have died so far.The rescue operations suffered soon after the sunset as power supply in major areas were disrupted due to snapped lines and shutting down of transformers. Reports said at least 18 bodies have been recovered from the world highest peak everest base camps as a strong avalanche was triggered due to the massive earthquake. Rescue operations are underway but reports said some base camps were buried under snow in the Avalanche ,trapping mountaineers. Reports say the Indian Mountaineers in base camp are safe.In April month a large number mountaineers scale heights on everest . Officials details are yet to be received. At least 34 people were killed at different places that shook most of the parts of Northern India today.As of now as many as 23 deaths are reported in quake related incidents in Bihar.while 8 persons died in Uttar Pradesh and three in West Bengal, Home Secretary L C Goyal said. The Centre is in constant touch with affected states", Mr Goyal said. Centre has put the government agencies in full preparedness for providing all needed assistance in the rescue and relief operations in the affected regions.Prime Minister Narendra Modi held an emergency meeting to take stock of the situation arising in India and Nepal. He assured full help in rescue operations. India has rushed NDRF teams to Nepal and affected parts of India.As after shocks continued to jolt both India and Nepal upto late this evening, relief and rescue operations teams had been put on highest alert. Helicopters continued to hover atop various worst affected areas in Nepal.People are in panic in various parts of Bihar due to recurring aftershocks while victims were battling to cope with the devastation.Power lines had been shut down to avert any major tragedy . In Sikkim, the earthquake was felt and reports reaching here said it triggered landslides and rains were lashing areas. Exact details could not be collected. The intensity was severest in Nepal where the epicenter was reported while its intensity was a bit low in India but areas of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, bordering Nepal, were also hit badly.With the tremblor leaving a trail of death and destruction in the Himalayan nation, local TV channels were showing heaps of bodies even as the authorities launched a massive rescue and relief operation. Chaotic scenes were witnessed outside hospitals where wailing relatives were seen searching their kith and kin.Every minute the toll is rising as rescuers with bare hands were trying to rescue trapped persons. No official figure of the death toll is available so far, but channels and various sources are compiling figures and apprehend that casualty figure might cross 1,000. Many of the injured reported to hospitals with broken limbs and bleeding wounds.Reports received from Kathmandu said casualty figures may be many times higher as several buildings had flattened with people feared buried under the debris. Hospitals were flooded with injured. Access to many lanes and by-lanes in the capital city of Kathmandu has been blocked due to huge mound of debris.Relief and rescue operations have been launched to save people trapped in collapsed buildings and historical monuments and temples. Doctors have pitched camps on streets of Kathmandu to give first aid to the injured.In Nepals Lamjung, the epicentre of the quake, many buildings have been flattened. There are reports of cracks developing at the Kathmandu airport. Flights have been diverted to India.Eyewitnesses said Dharahara Tower/Bhimsen Tower, a 19th century nine-storey tall tower in Kathmandu, has collapsed. About 400 people are believed to be trapped.Yoga guru Baba Ramdev, who is currently in Kathmandu, said he heard a major "explosion" like sound soon after the quake and at least five aftershocks have been felt .Prime Minister Narendra Modi held an emergency meeting to review the situation arising from the quake in India and how New Delhi could assist Nepal in its hour of crisis. He also spoke to Nepal Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who is in transit in Bangkok on his way to Kathmandu. MORE UNI TEAM AT-NB CH 1855 -- (UNI) -- C-1-1-DL0177-96027.Xml
crack.txt:4605.txt:Airport Runaway at risk -Tribhuvan International Airport of capital city Kathmandu has been enduring huge traffic of military carrier planes. Thought there was no sign of any cracks in the runway's inspection; government wants to take no chance with runway's conditions as it's the only lifeline for foreign aid. A recent notice to airport staff prohibits the landing of any plane exceeding 196 tonnes. #Nature
crack.txt:4720.txt:LOUISVILLE, Ky. (WDRB) -- Many of us have seen the horrific images of the earthquake that struck Nepal on Saturday, April 25. As of this writing, the earthquake killed more than 7,000 people and left countless more injured. It even triggered an avalanche that killed several on Mount Everest, the world's tallest peak.Roger Hoagland, a Christian missionary based in Louisville, decided to help. He arrived in the capitol city of Kathmandu at 8:30 a.m. on Tuesday, April 28 -- just three days after the earthquake -- and was among one of the first relief teams to hit the ground in Nepal.After spending one week heading up a medical team there, an emotional Hoagland spoke by phone from Kathmandu with WDRB's Travis Kircher. He talked about the some of the horrors he's witnessed, some of the dangers still present, and how he manages to bring hope to people who have lost everything.This interview took place on May 5, 2015.Yes. I'm a graduate of Fern Creek High School. I graduated in 1972. I graduated from the University of Louisville in 1975 – got my Master's Degree at U of L. I went right into education. I taught at the public school level and then at the private school for the last 25 years. I was the administrator of Evangel Christian School. Also, I served as the mission director for Evangel – it's a large ministry in Louisville.So when the earthquake occurred, I was in a mission. I was in Turkey, and I just felt a prompting to head to Nepal – and I've been there two other occasions, two other years – to lead medical teams up in the mountains. So I was familiar with it. We have assisted with earthquake relief on four other occasions. One in China in 2006. One hundred thousand died in that earthquake. We brought food into the mountains and other assistance. And also three separate trips to Haiti. We were the first to be on a commercial flight into Haiti after the earthquake, so I was somewhat familiar with that process.So I arrived, as I said, just under three days from when the earthquake hit on April 25.First of all, many of the roads were blocked off, and I guess the most frightening thing to me, when you see electric wires on the ground, you think, ‘There's no way we should pass near that.' Well, in this case, you saw tens of thousands of wires down, so I was a little uncomfortable moving around the city.I was impressed with how the people of Nepal work together to try to rescue and uncover in much debris in the area.I was stunned by the leaning buildings – and what happens in this case, you have so many that come down completely, so you just see a mound of rubble. But then you see many that have cracks and are just leaning a little bit. And after a while, day after day, you just kind of forget that they are there.The realization hit me hard the other day. I walked past one, and I was on a sidewalk and I went to a location. Two days later, I came back and I could not pass through that. The building had completely come onto the sidewalk, so had I been there, I would have been killed. So that's something. These buildings are just ready to come down.I would say another thing you observe is that it seems like 25 percent of the buildings are either destroyed or need to be demolished. Another thing I noticed when I arrived is the people out in the streets. As I said, I've been to Nepal before, and have never seen so many people on the streets. And I understood after talking to different ones, that they were afraid to go back into their homes. They had enough sense to know, ‘If my home has numerous cracks in it, it's not safe to be there.' So fields are just flooded with people with makeshift tents and tarps. They're lying on the sidewalk area and everywhere at night.My flight was an early flight for rescue teams. Not many were here at all. But now the teams – and I believe there's 20 nations represented with rescue and relief teams, and they are doing an excellent job. And let me just say, I am so proud of the United States because we stand tall there with our people. You see them on the street so prevalent here.I witnessed the rescue of two people after five days, which was extraordinary. A group from Los Angeles – they were leading the way with that. What happened, they were walking past a building – and again, five days – and they heard the noise of a man, so they started trying to dig him out, which is a frightening operation, because where they're going under, the building can collapse more. So people are really at risk doing that. So the crowd gathered and got larger and larger and the rumor spread that someone was alive. And after seeing so much death, it became just a very exciting moment, so when they pulled him out and put him on a stretcher, it was just a beautiful thing. The crowd erupted in applause, and then a second one was rescued, and it was an exciting day.The one boy looked like he was maybe 25. He looked to be in pretty rough condition physically. That's the one they spent so much time trying to rescue.If you can imagine two rows of servicemen from Nepal combined with United States rescue men from Los Angeles. They just joined arms in these two long lines so people would not push through, because they knew that someone was alive after five days, which was remarkable. I was there perhaps 45 minutes to an hour, and the crowd – just a ballpark figure – was maybe 2,000 people waiting. And rumor spread quickly that someone was found alive. Then you see a group of doctors and medics running ahead, right through the middle of the two lines of servicemen. And right behind them, they're carrying the stretcher of this boy. Again, he looked about 25, very bruised.And then just a little later, there was a man, I would say around 30, that was dressed in army fatigues. But he was also rescued. I don't know the story behind him.Most are, I believe, presumed dead now because of the length of time, but you still have hope.But I will say that, what is troubling to me as a parent – I have four sons – is to walk by…if I walk from here, where I am now, across town, I will pass perhaps 100-200 mounds of rubble. Maybe more. In each of those, it's filled with bodies that haven't been taken out. So as a parent, if you can imagine walking by these and knowing my children or my mother is under there, it's just an overwhelming thing emotionally.And that is everywhere. I'll give you an example. There is a tower that was the largest tower in Kathmandu. And it was an observation deck. But it was an iconic building, very similar to the Eiffel Tower for Paris or the Statue of Liberty for the U.S. So this tower – you would see it in postcards. Anyway, when the earthquake occurred on Saturday just before noon, there were 250 people on top of that tower, or inside of it. The tower came down almost totally, and out of those, they recovered 40 bodies. So one person out of 250 survived that fall. So there are 209 people in that big pile of rubble which I pass. And that is the story all over the city – that they just do not have the equipment to recover the remains. It's just not there. And the task is just too big by hand. And when I say ‘rubble,' some of the ‘rubble' is tree stories high.Something else: As a Christian, we in the United States – most of us – worship on Sunday. They worship here on Saturday, and this occurred right when the churches were in service – in the middle of their service. I was at a location today where there were 75 people worshiping on the seventh floor of a seven-floor building, and most everything under them was clear. People were out shopping or doing whatever for the day – Saturday was their holiday – but this group of worshipers was on the seventh floor. So when the building came down, fortunately, 45 survived injured, [but] 30 died. That is common in many of the churches throughout the city. Christianity is a minority. But nevertheless, it was a very tragic thing for those going to church that day.Well, that's a good question. What I have found is the modern buildings here, most of those stood tall. You can look at a street and see four or five buildings that look untouched, and right next to them will be this big pile of rubble. What was explained to me: the old construction, they used this type of brick that is made of clay. From the outside, it looks like a strong brick, but if you throw it down, it turns into sand, or powder. So that's what happened. Many of these buildings were built with that type of brick, so when they came down from the top, it's just a domino effect.But it amazes me to look at streets where you see some buildings without even a crack.I've been working in a hospital almost every day, bringing food to families and ministering to patients, and the hospital is probably 9-10 stories, and it's frightening just to look on the outside. You have cracks throughout the structure. I'm hoping the foundation is good, but the façade is terrible. And yet, they're continuing to operate there as a full-service hospital.And the need is great. The hallways have been full of victims – and I've worked with, mainly, the earthquake victims. And it's just heartbreaking. There's a lady there that's, just as an example, who is just grieving. She's in pain. Her leg is broken. Her arm is broken. But she's also lost a son. So the emotional toll on her…I've been working, also, with a little girl whose parents cannot even afford to come visit their daughter. They live in a remote area. She has fractures in the bottom of her back. She just had surgery and I've been with her almost every day. Another lady was grieving…and she had lost her son and husband. So when they lose family members, they also lost their home. So it is quite overwhelming.The average income here is about $1,500 U.S. equivalents per year. So very, very poor people – so to start over is a very huge challenge the them.Oh my. I have an interpreter that travels with me. Some of these -- I would say 20 percent do know English. The interpreter helps me there. What I do is I reach out and I touch them. I give them a hug. I shake their hand and I show with my expression how deeply sorry I am, and have the interpreter to help me. That's about all that I can do.But we can do more. If you give them something while you're doing that, I believe that is a comfort. You present them food. You present them money. It's just a little ray of hope that somebody I don't even know is trying to bless my life. So that's part of what I feel I need to do while I'm here – and I'm trying to do – is just be a light in this dark time for them. But it is – it's hard to know what to say. But the Bible speaks that ‘when you've done it to the least of these, my brethren,' you've done it to the Lord, or if you give a cup of water, it's as doing it unto the Lord. I think it's that same principle. We don't know these people. We're not necessarily trying to convert, but we're trying to love them, and be a light and an encouragement to them.Yes – oh yes. Yes. Well, I got out of bed because I thought that somebody had broken into my room, it so scared me. It was just that the beds were moving and there was cracking noise all around me. I guess that was the most frightening one. But there has been, probably while I have been here, three or four or five, that you could just feel the trembling. Nothing serious. But where they are of concern are for the buildings that are unstable and already in very poor condition. That's where you could set them off. Thankfully, not a lot of people are in those buildings. They're using wisdom. But they are continuing to walk right by the buildings, and I think with the idea that they're gonna come straight down to the bottom, but that's not always the case. As I told you before, sometimes they go sideways. That's a significant concern.Yesterday I felt one. I didn't feel it much, but a lady spoke to me. She said, ‘Did you feel that? Did you feel that?' It was in the afternoon yesterday.Well I think on the ground level, a great amount of food has been brought in. In fact, I think that is the challenge. Our group from Louisville is taking tons of this up into the mountains where a lot of aid has not reached these areas. They're devastated. So I would say here the food is good and these transport planes are bringing in tons and tons of food. And they certainly need that.But I think they also need money. Because if you look at the long-term, they're going to have to rebuild. They're going to have to find a place to rent. They're going to have to get strong tents if they're going to endure months like this instead of a tarp. And so I just – I wish I had more money to hand out, and honestly I've handed out so much, because it's one of those situations where you see the needs, and how do you say no? [HOAGLAND'S VOICE FALTERS.] They're everywhere. And you just want to bless – and money works. And they know more than we know what they need. That money does buy them necessities. They know the stores to go to – and there are many stores that are open – that sell the items cheaper than we would find them. So I think people that send in money to these organizations are doing a good thing. They need money.It's not gonna be a quick fix. It's gonna take years to re-establish these communities. Hopefully they build them with modern security techniques that they'll be more stable, because this is, of course, an earthquake-prone area. In 1990s, they had a very large one here.I have not been in the United States since this has happened, so I can't say. I haven't seen news from the United States, but from what I can see from our church, the response was terrific. They rallied together and they're bringing money into Nepal. The team will be here tomorrow morning and have brought in – I don't know the exact figure, but I know it's over $20,000. I was very thankful for that. So I do think people in the United States have this sense of a great need, and hopefully they will contribute. This is a time to step up to the plate.And I believe the U.S., more than any other country, I'll say, except Israel – Israel I have seen in these disasters step up very tall and are quick to be there and quick to set up hospitals. But the United States, I would say, they stand up the tallest as far as bringing in aid and equipment needed.That's one of the things, I will say Travis, there is not enough equipment here. I have been all around the city in-depth, and I have seen perhaps 8-10 large pieces of equipment to move the debris. But if they United States if that happened – in Louisville – we would have hundreds and hundreds of pieces. Perhaps thousands. So they're just short of equipment. And that's going to take time to bring that in from mainland China or India or wherever they can bring those large pieces in, the bulldozers they need and the backhoes and things like that. They just don't have enough.And the airport is woefully inadequate. One runway. And so to get all these – and space for nine planes, smaller planes. It's just not used to the traffic that will be required to come in and bring all the aid. It's just not big enough. But they're doing well. They're pushing some domestic flights back, and I've heard stories where the planes sometimes circle for hours and have to go to India to refuel, then return to Kathmandu and hope they can land. So that's good and bad: the good news is there's a lot of aid and rescue workers going in.Well, I think it's what we should do. Again, it goes back to that philosophy, which is a scripture: if you've done it to the least of these my brethren, you've done it unto me. I think it doesn't matter who they are – if we do know them, if we do not – if there's a need, we try to help. I think that's the spirit of America. It's certainly the spirit of Christianity, to reach out and bless people you don't know. It's a joy for me. I come home, or get into my hotel, and I just feel energized every day in the afternoons when I come in after a long day. It's just, ‘Thank you Lord for my family that's alive in America. Thank you for this opportunity to serve.' It truly is a joy.
crack.txt:5108.txt:I’m now safely back at home in the UK, having negotiated the chaos at Kathmandu airport yesterday to get one of the few flights out. I was with the family of a Nepal-based colleague being pushed along with a crowd of hundreds when the second quake hit. Instinctively, I grabbed my colleague’s young son and hunkered down by a wall. As the ground buckled and flexed I watched the screws supporting the large information display above our heads pop out one by one. It somehow clung onto to the wall but the electricity was down, the control tower was abandoned, the jagged marble floor cracked open, and there was yet more panic and shouting. But the plane did eventually take off. I feel very lucky to be back here in the UK and I can’t get those left behind out of my head.
crack.txt:5138.txt:There have been reports of cracks on the runway and other problems at the only airport capable of handling jetliners.
crack.txt:5141.txt:There have been reports of cracks on the runway and other problems at the only airport capable of handling jetliners.
crack.txt:5146.txt:There have been reports of cracks on the runway and other problems at the only airport in Nepal capable of handling jetliners.
crack.txt:6405.txt:Plans to fly the dismantled Chinooks to Nepal in transporter aircraft were first announced on 30 April. But Nepalese authorities were forced to close the international airport in Kathmandu after cracks appeared in the runway, forcing the UK to divert the helicopters to Delhi for reassembly.
crack.txt:6578.txt:And only hours ago, as I sat in the departures lounge of the Kathmandu airport, with rainwater from a thunderstorm streaming through the ceiling and ever watchful for news of yet another closure due to cracks in the runway, I struggle to find the words to describe the effects of the first earthquake.
crack.txt:7177.txt:It’s now on hold indefinitely, like so much in the country. Schools are shut. The government is reportedly transporting injured citizens from remote areas to the best hospitals in big cities, which are overwhelmed. Foreigners are sending tons of aid, or at least enough to crack the fragile runway of the small international airport.
crack.txt:782.txt:ON BOARD FLIGHT 6E 31: There seemed to be quite a few who had at the last moment cancelled their IndiGo flight to Kathmandu from New Delhi on Sunday . They will be happy they did.The flight, filled with journalists from all over the world and Nepalese citizens going home to meet their families, was on time as it took off at about 20 minutes past 11am. Amrit Sharma, a web entrepreneur settled in Minneapolis, was worried about his mother in Nepal. "I'm happy to be going home," he said in a thick American accent. "Happy and sad."Behind him, two Nepalese men were discussing the extent of damage to their houses. One of them, possibly working in India, said he would have to "remain here for another 10 years."Trouble suddenly started at around 12.45pm when the pilot announced that he had lost contact with the ATC in Kathmandu. Even as the passengers were turning to each other to see if they had understood correctly what he said, there was an explanation a minute later that did nothing to change the mood. "ATC has evacuated the building. We are not able to establish contact."Thousands of feet above ground, in the middle of nowhere, that didn't sound good at all. And that's a deliberate understatement.Ten minutes after that the pilot took the mic again. "Hope you understand. It is beyond our control." Everyone understood. There was no scope for confusion.Another quake had hit Kathmandu, and the 6.9 magnitude tremor had forced everyone in the ATC building to run for their lives. So there was no one to guide the flight from Delhi.But the plane kept going towards Kathmandu, the pilot hopeful that in the next few minutes the ATC men would perhaps come back and take control. That didn't happen. What did, instead, was the message that the runway had now closed. Kathmandu was just 20 minutes away. Another address to the passengers followed. At about 1.15pm, the pilot said that though they don't know the exact intensity of the latest jolt to hit the valley, "we have come to know it was stronger than yesterday". After a silent five minutes, he came back on air, this time to say, "We are not allowed to land. We will have to divert to Delhi."Something resembling a muted yelp came out of Sharma. "My mother," he said.By 1.25pm, the flight was turning back for Delhi. It touched down at the capital at a little past 2pm, but no one was allowed to deplane. "Please remain in your seats," a member of the cabin crew announced. "We are trying to see if it's possible to go back to Kathmandu."At 4.05pm, all passengers were still inside the plane. It had been five hours cooped up in the aircraft and people were getting restless. Half an hour later, the mic crackled to life again. "We have the clearance now, we are going back to Kathmandu."At 10 minutes to 5pm, the 6E 31 took off again. But at 6.15, it was the pilot again. "We are 100 miles short of Kathmandu. The weather is bad and it won't be advisable to penetrate it. Don't worry, we have two hours of fuel."It would take another two hours for the plane to touch down, which it did at 8pm. The one and half hour Delhi-Kathmandu flight had taken close to 9 hours. In the distance from Tribhuvan International Airport was the city of Kathmandu, desolate, bruised and dark.
crack.txt:805.txt:Juhu couple Sahil Mane and Tara Kaushal landed in Kathmandu last Monday on a two-week vacation. Sahil, a photographer, and Tara, a media consultant, hadn't had a holiday in two years, and selected Nepal for an adrenalin rush, complete with treks and bike rides. Yesterday, 11.56 am Nepal time, they literally saw the world crumble in front of them.As the earthquake of a 7.9 magnitude hit Nepal - its worst in 80 years - Tara and Sahil were getting a tattoo done at Hotel Yak and Yeti, in the capital Kathmandu. First the lights went off, then came the tremors, and the reality hit them when they saw a man jumping from a window of a building opposite. That's when they realised it was serious trouble."It was crazy, the ground was shaking and the buildings were crumbling to dust in front of our eyes," Sahil said. "We rushed out and saw a man jumping from a building. We saw a huge crack in the middle of our hotel building. It had cracked from the middle. Several people were buried under the debris within minutes."The couple, like hundreds of thousands of people trapped in Kathmandu, have taken refuge in a park. No-one dares to venture indoors as there are warnings of more tremors. "We were attending a tattoo convention with more than 70 artists from all over the world when the chandeliers hanging from the roof began swinging wildly. "The hotels are shut, and people have lined the streets, parks, everywhere," Sahil said.The Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu was indefinitely shut on Saturday. However, by evening yesterday, the airlines announced the resumption of flights to Nepal from Sunday. A few airlines, such as SpiceJet, have been asked to keep aircraft ready to lift supplies and bring back stranded passengers.Around 60 people from Maharashtra are believed to be stranded in Nepal. Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis has directed state officials to keep in touch with them and assured all possible help, and a rescue team of 22 members from the Mumbai Fire Brigade are expected to fly to the Himalayan country."I have instructed the state officials to be in touch with tourists from Maharashtra in Nepal and to give all the support and help to them," Fadnavis tweeted.The Juhu couple said they were looking forward to get out of Nepal as soon as possible, as even water was scarce. Thousands of tourists have been stranded without food and water, the couple said, adding the people had pitched tents at the parks."As soon as we realised there was an earthquake, we started looking for water. Everything has been shut. As we walked the narrows streets, which resemble the by-lanes of Bandra, walls around us were collapsing. There are people from all over the world who are stranded. We are lucky that we had come prepared for the music festival, and carried tents, sleeping bags and sweaters," Sahil said.
crack.txt:813.txt:Umesh Zirpe, a noted mountaineer and Himalaya expert, has survived many a calamity on his expeditions in the past. On Saturday morning, when devastation struck this mountain country, Zirpe was driving to the airport to check on flight details of a team of mountaineers, who had completed yet another voyage, when he suddenly felt his car shake up. For a split second as Zirpe was about to consider a flat tyre, he saw houses around him collapse like a pack of cards, reduced to dust instantly.Minutes later, volunteers from his organisation Giripremi back in Pune, were set in motion to begin preparations for rescue operations. On Sunday, Zirpe and 12 other mountaineers from Pune who were on an expedition, reached Kathmandu airport safely, to take a flight back home, but Zirpe has decided to stay back."There are many people from Maharashtra stuck in various parts of Nepal. The situation is very critical. The roads are full of debris and those who have survived the calamity are shattered. Right now, they are in need of three things — moral support, blood and money. After seeing the devastation all around me, I have decided to stay put and help others."Zirpe led the Pune-based team, which had conquered Mount Everest in 2012; subsequently, he had taken a team of mountaineers to the Everest base camp. Today, he feels that he and his volunteers are fortunate to be of help. "While in the car, when we learnt that an earthquake of such a huge magnitude had hit this region, the driver just left the vehicle and ran in the middle of the road in sheer panic," narrated Zirpe over acrackling phone line from Kathmandu on Sunday evening. "It was the ugliest scene ever. People have lost their homes and are now completely shattered."Zirpe put down his impromptu decision to the long association he has had with Nepal — the many friendships he has struck here over the years and the local organisations that have helped him through many mountaineering expeditions. "Now, when they are facing a crisis, I thought we should help them. Apart from Nepali nationals, there are several Maharashtrians who are stuck here and I feel I am obliged to help them."He visited a local hospital on Sunday to seek names and other details of people from Maharashtra who are admitted for treatment. "The Nepalese government will require manpower to help survivors and I have asked members of Giripremi to be on the standby as volunteers," Zirpe said.Ashish Rajput, a Solapur-based professor, stuck in the calamity-hit region, feels he is living an experience nothing short of a nightmare. As he travelled from Kathmandu to Sunauli border, with 38 others who were on a trip to Nepal, in order to board a Mumbai-bound train, the only images being presented to him are those of dead people and debris."When the quake struck, we had just emerged from the Pashupatinath temple in Kathmandu, after a darshan. Soon we saw the situation getting out of hand, and so decided to go to our next destination on Sunauli border. This devastation will be etched in our memory for ever. The agony and grief in the eyes of survivors on the scene is unbearable," said Rajput on the phone. "All of us just want to return home. But are these the memories we deserve to carry for life?" The group will now board the train on Tuesday.The devastation will be etched in our memory forever. The agony and grief in the eyes of the survivors on the scene is unbearable
crack.txt:816.txt:The Nepal temblor has sent shock waves in Karnataka too, with around 250 people from the state stranded there. The good news is that the first batch of 40 Bengalureans will fly to Delhi early Sunday and land in Bengaluru by noon, according to immigration officials and embassy sources. "Nearly 400 Indians are waiting at Kathmandu airport," they said.Shivaram MS, a tour coordinator in Kathmandu, confirmed 40 Bengalureans are with him at the airport. Chief secretary Kaushik Mukherjee told STOI that two senior officers, Bescom MD Pankaj Pandey and IGP (north range) Umesh Kumar, have gone to Nepal.Meanwhile families back home are worried as the Kathmandu airport has been shut and communication lines are cut off.Sunitha Gowda, a resident of Veerbhadranagar near Banashankari, broke down when STOI called her: "My parents went to Nepal for a tour on April 16 and were to return on Monday. My father L Siddamaraiah called me at 5.55pm on Saturday after the quake and seemed to be in shock. He could hardly speak and asked me to get help from Bengaluru.I am praying they are safe."Ritesh Kumar Singh, IAS officer who is heading the helpline and disaster management committee, said, "At least 250 people from Karnataka are stranded in Nepal. We tracked down two large groups of 85 and 40 Kannadigas each who are safe . IAF has started evacuation," he said.--inputs by Arunima Chakraborty and Disha SanghviBizman called an hour before takeoffBusinessman Ramakrishna Elluru, 32, from Yelahanka New Town had gone to Kathmandu on a business trip on April 18 and was to return by Saturday's 4.30pm flight. His friend Raghavendra B R told STOI, "He last called me at 3.30pm, an hour before his flight was to take off from Kathmandu. Since then, we've been unable to connect. His family is very worried."She was on tour with 6 friendsSusheela, 54, an LIC employee from Davanagere, who had gone on a tour to Nepal with six Bengaluru-based friends on April 22, finally established contact with her kin.Susheela, who is single, had spoken to her family at 11am from Muktinath but later lost contact, said her sister Krishnaveni.Group waits for road clearanceSooryakant Dambal and his family and friends, who were part of a 35-member group from Belagavi, are safe, said his son-in-law Rajendra Anegundi from Chikkodi. But they can't return until the local administration gives them the road clearance, as several roads have developed cracks following the earthquake, he added.Miraculous escape for family of sevenA seven-member family from Mysuru had a narrow escape as they left Kathmandu just an hour before the tragedy. B S Nagaraj, priest at Ramamandira in Paduvarahalli, and his family reached the Indian border just after noon, said his brother-in-law.They were part of an organized trip by Karnataka Kisan Sangha in Bengaluru.Student worried about his parentsA distressed Sandeep H R, a college student from Jayanagar, said his parents flew to Kathmandu on Thursday and were expected to visit Pokhra on Saturday."They last spoke to me at noon. I have no clue whether they have reached Pokhra or are stranded there or are in Kathmandu still. I'm unable to speak to them," he said.
crack.txt:892.txt:I tried telling people around us to calm down but everyone kept shoving one another to get out. So we found a corner to wait until the crowd cleared, along with two elderly tourists.After a minute or so, the tremors subsided. By then, many passengers and the ground crew were outside the terminal building, on the tarmac.After a while, many of them went back into the terminal building, but they ran out again whenever there was an aftershock.Andrea and I chose to stay on the tarmac, nipping in quickly to use the toilet and back out again.There was a lot of dust floating about outside the terminal building following the quake, and every 10 to 15 minutes, we would feel an aftershock, which sent people into a tizzy again.Two hours after the quake, at 2 p.m., there was still no information on the status of outgoing flights. However, a few flights from Yeti Airlines began landing, each to applause from the people around.At 2:10 p.m., we were asked to board our plane, the reason being that it would be more comfortable for us on the aircraft.One of our fellow passengers was Australian actress Brittni Giles, 27, who was in Nepal working on a documentary on motorcycle trekking.She told me: "My friend and I were waiting in the corridor of the airport leading to the tarmac when we felt the earth rumbling beneath our feet. We could hear cracks forming in the building, followed by people screaming and running out onto the tarmac."I used to live in Japan so I'm quite familiar with earthquakes. I looked up at the hills and saw all the dust and realized it must have been a pretty big one."My friends are still in the city (Kathmandu) and they are all right. They are helping to pull people out of the rubble."This was my first trip to Nepal and I had been looking forward to visiting this Shangri-La in a mountain valley with Andrea.We spent two days in Kathmandu, visiting the Durbar squares; enjoying the chaos of Thamel, a backpackers' haunt; wandering through the streets of the ancient city of Bhaktapur; and enjoying the local food - lots of dahl bat.We also did a five-day trek in the Himalayas.Along the way, we got to see how the Nepali people lived. Most of those we met were soft-spoken, humble folk, including our guide Diwan Gaire, 26, who took care of us.Businesses were run in a welcoming, laid-back fashion, with minimal touting.I wish the people of Nepal strength as they recover from this tragedy, and hope they receive the aid they need to do so.By Dhany Osman(The Straits Times)
crack.txt:949.txt:New Delhi, April 26: Teetering on a precipice, the helipad looked like it was about to cave in. An Indian Air Force helicopter flying from Kathmandu circled twice above the helipad at Dhuncha, 50km north of Kathmandu, this afternoon. There were villagers at Dhuncha wanting to be evacuated. Fresh tremors had loosened the earth and the helipad itself was cracked. The Indian pilots, with another from the Nepal Army to guide them, decided the helipad may not be able to take the weight of their machine. But down they went, hesitantly and hovered inches above the ground, taking in passengers one by one before flying to safety. As the IAF and the Indian Army fan out with other rescuers, medical teams, salvagers and caregivers across the Himalayan republic, the magnitude of the disaster and the risks involved in the rescue are gradually beginning to dawn. Tens of thousands of people were in or were headed to Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu this afternoon where a glut of military and commercial planes created congestion. The toll in the quakes in Nepal since yesterday was estimated to have crossed 2,400 by 7 this evening. An exact count of the number of Indians in Nepal is being "ruled out", largely because of the freedom of movement that citizens of either country have. The Indian Army, that is calling its effort in Nepal "Operation Maitri", today pumped troops, equipment and helicopters into Nepal with the army chief, General Dalbir Singh, himself a Gorkha Rifles regiment officer, calling his counterpart General S.J.B. Rana in the morning and offering assistance. Two major generals have been posted to Pokhara and Kathmandu each to coordinate the effort. The Indian and Nepal army chiefs are also honorary chiefs of one another's armies. A multi-national coordination centre has been set up with a branch headquarters in Pokhara. Army sources said six of 18 medical teams that have been tasked to help with the relief efforts in Nepal have been deployed. Rain and thunderstorms that forced closure of Kathmandu airport for about four hours in the afternoon delayed deployment. The army is also sending 10 engineer task forces with machinery to clear roads and debris. The troops have taken along with them 10,000 blankets and 1,000 tents are on standby. The army and the air force have also forward-deployed helicopters and planes to Gorakhpur and Bareilly. On a special request from the Nepal government because of problems in the Kathmandu Oxygen plant, the army has been asked to take cylinders of the life-giving gas for distribution. An Indian Army Everest Expedition that survived two avalanches at the base camp had till today extricated the bodies of 19 climbers of different nationalities and rescued 61 mountaineers. The army team has lost almost all its equipment in the avalanches. The army said it was coordinating efforts with former soldiers - of the Gorkha regiments in the Indian Army - "for guidance, relief and rescue". IAF helicopters that have been moved to Kathmandu and Pokhara have flown 37 sorties over 23 hours since yesterday, defence spokesperson Sitanshu Kar said. The helicopters have evacuated 203 people. Fixed-wing aircraft of the IAF have flown back more than 1,100 people from Kathmandu to airports in India.
