100.txt:As Nepal trembled, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
1020.txt:The disaster appeared to spare none, VVIPs included. President Ram Baran Yadav spent Saturday night in a tent after the quake caused several cracks in his office-cum-residence.
1023.txt:Facebook Twitter Pinterest Large cracks open up in road after earthquake
1023.txt:Residents ran out of buildings in panic when the initial earthquake struck. Walls tumbled, large cracks opened on streets and walls, towers collapsed and clouds of dust began to swirl around.
1037.txt:According to reports, the earthquake struck before noon local time, causing massive destruction that cracked opened streets, razed homes, neighborhoods, and hundred-year-old temples; even triggering landslides at nearby Mount Everest. The earthquake was felt as far as India and Bangladesh.
1038.txt:On Kathmandu's outskirts the town of Patan suffered terrible damage when its central Durbar Square lost several pagodas as structures pancaked straight down while others merely shook and cracked.
1044.txt:"We were walking on a snowy slope when suddenly a crack opened, but fortunately we were able to skirt it," a mountain climber told Xinhua.
1045.txt:Residents ran out of their homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
1057.txt:A growing sense of despair spread through Kathmandu on Sunday as the devastated Nepali capital was convulsed by aftershocks that sent residents screaming into the streets, where they were pelted by heavy rain.A day after an earthquake killed more than 2,400 people and injured about 5,900, residents grew frantic and the government, entirely overwhelmed by the enormousness of the challenge facing the country, struggled to provide relief, or much hope.Streets in parts of this city of about 1.2 million were impassable not so much from quake damage but because tens of thousands of people took up residence there. It was a strategy endorsed by the government.Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who was attending a conference in Indonesia when the quake struck, had rushed back to Kathmandu and was to speak in a televised address Sunday. But the speech was delayed, as some relief efforts have been, by strong tremors that continue to rock the country.The already difficult situation in much of the capital, where safe shelters are scarce, was made worse Sunday when rains began to pour down on huddled masses.It is increasingly evident that Nepali authorities were ill-equipped to rescue those trapped and would have trouble maintaining adequate supplies of water, electricity and food."In my neighborhood, the police are conspicuous by their absence," said Sridhar Khatri of the South Asia Center for Policy Studies in Kathmandu. "There is not even a show of force to deter vandalism, which some reports say is on the rise."On Sunday, the government began setting up 16 relief stations across Kathmandu and the rest of the country while rescue operations continued. The relief stations are expected to ease distribution of water, food and medicine, said Laxmi Prasad Dhakal, a spokesman at the Ministry of Home Affairs.Electricity has been intermittent at best in Kathmandu, and absent entirely in other parts of Nepal, but that is not wholly unusual in a country where nighttime blackouts are routine.Many hotels, commercial buildings and wealthy homes in the capital have their own generators. But nearly all of the country's gas and diesel supplies are brought in from India, and with traffic reduced to a crawl along major highways, those supplies could dwindle quickly. Some gas stations in Kathmandu have already run dry; others are rationing their remaining supplies.Thousands of Kathmandu's residents squatted on streets throughout the city either because their homes were destroyed or because continued aftershocks, including one of magnitude 6.7, left them too afraid to go inside. Other residents camped out in schools, school playgrounds and government offices.The government announced that schools would remain closed for at least five days, and it pleaded with government workers to help in local rescue efforts in place of their usual jobs.Stephen Groves, who lives in Kathmandu, said he was inspecting a building for cracks shortly after noon on Sunday when the biggest of many aftershocks hit, leading to terrified screams from those nearby."The whole time I was thinking if the building next to me was going to come down on top of me," Groves said in an email. "People here are in a panic, and every aftershock contributes to that. They are not going indoors, they are staying in the roads and in open areas. Many are searching for family members."Groves said he went to a hospital in the capital Saturday, where hordes of people were lying on the ground outside the building, many with intravenous drips hooked up to their arms.The city was awash with rumors that the worst aftershocks were yet to come and with fears of greater destruction in the countryside, large swaths of which remained unreachable by phone.Subhash Ghimire, the editor-in-chief of the Nepalese newspaper Republica, said he managed to reach his father in his village, home to about 3,000 people, near the epicenter in the Gorkha district."He said not a single house is left in our village, including our own house," Ghimire said.On Mount Everest, helicopter rescue operations began Sunday morning to bring wounded climbers down off the mountain, where at least 18 climbers were killed and another 41 injured, making the earthquake the deadliest event in the mountain's history. Three Americans were among those killed, according to the U.S. State Department. Aftershocks and small avalanches throughout the day Sunday continued to plague the nearly 800 people staying at the mountain base camp and at higher elevation camps.After posting on Twitter that he was "fairly safe but stuck" at the base camp, a climber, Jim Davidson, then provided a more alarming update from Camp 1, which is above the base camp. "Just had our biggest aftershock yet here at C1 on Everest. Smaller than original quake but glacier shook & avalanches," he said.Nick Talbot, 39, was attempting to be the first person with cystic fibrosis to climb Mount Everest when a 100- to 200-yard wall of ice and snow came barreling toward him."I ran away," he said. "I thought, 'There is no chance I can get away.' I just had my socks on. It knocked me into the rocks. I got up and it knocked me over again." he said. He was evacuated by helicopter Sunday afternoon. All of his belongings were buried by the avalanche."I'm sure there will have been many fatalities just because the scale of it," he said.Tulasi Prasad Gautam, director general of Nepal's Tourism Department, said he feared that continued aftershocks had trapped more climbers. In addition to the dead and injured, nearly 25 climbers who had been en route Saturday to Camp 2 from Camp 1 are missing."Actually, the tents are still there for some 20 to 25 climbers who were heading towards Camp 2 in the course of climbing practice, but they are not in contact," Gautam said.In a blog post Sunday, Eric Simonson of International Mountain Guides said the news from the Everest base camp "was quite bleak," and that the company's encampment "has been turned into a triage center, and our big dining tents are now being used as hospital tents.""The tons and tons of falling ice going this vertical distance created a huge aerosol avalanche and accompanying air blast," he wrote. "It is worth noting that over many expeditions we have never seen an avalanche from this area that was even remotely of this scale."Susan Parker-Burns, a spokeswoman from the U.S. Embassy in Nepal, said in an email Sunday that a rescue-and-relief team from the U.S. Agency for International Development was dispatched by military transport to Nepal, and they would arrive Monday.Also Sunday, the Israeli military said that it was preparing to send two Boeing 747s carrying 260 aid workers and more than 90 tons of cargo to Kathmandu.About 600 Israelis are believed to be in Nepal, a popular destination for young backpackers after their compulsory military service. Magen David Adom, Israel's national emergency medical response organization, had already sent an advance team of 10 paramedics and two doctors to Nepal.Nepal will most likely require significant help. The country's existing political discord is likely to hamper rescue and rebuilding efforts. The government has been barely functional for more than a decade, with politicians of just about every stripe fighting over the scraps of the increasingly desperate economy. A 10-year civil war between Maoist parties and the government ended in 2006, but the resulting Constituent Assembly spent four years trying to write a constitution without success. Paralysis ensued until elections in November 2013 led to the unexpected rout of the previously dominant Maoists.Nepal's people had already become exhausted with the political paralysis, but those feelings could turn explosive if relief and rescue efforts fail in the coming weeks, analysts said. The fear of such an outcome could spur an intense international relief effort, as an odd collection of countries - including China, India and the United States - were already cooperating on pushing Nepal's politicians toward compromise.
1076.txt:When the earth first shook, residents fled homes and buildings in panic as walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets. After the chaos of Saturday — when little organized rescue and relief was seen — there was more order on Sunday as rescue teams fanned out across the city.
1076.txt:Kathmandu, April 26 (IANS) Nepal President Ram Baran Yadav spent Saturday night inside a tent after the powerful earthquake caused several cracks in his office-cum-residence.
1076.txt:Known as Sheetal Niwas, the house was earlier used by the foreign ministry. Some parts of the building, including the kitchen, developed cracks following the earthquake.
107.txt:The quake, Nepal's worst in 81 years, was more destructive for being shallow, toppling buildings, opening gaping cracks in roads and sending people scurrying into the open as aftershocks rattled their damaged homes.
110.txt:"We are waiting outside hotel for advice, people calmer now but each aftershock brings mass hysteria. Still small aftershocks, brick walls swaying in Thamel each time, huge cracks in buildings.
110.txt:Armed police patrolled the streets, where there were scenes of mass devastation, with temples reduced to rubble, roads cracked and warped, and injured people covered in dust.
1129.txt:In Bangladesh, buildings across the old part of the capital Dhaka cracked from the impact, and several workers in a garment factory were hurt as they rushed to escape.
112.txt:Cracks developed in some factory buildings while some high-rise buildings in the capital had tilted.
112.txt:Asha Tower in Shyamoli, Ershad Colony in Islambagh and Barisal Plaza near Bangabazar also tilted and cracks had developed in four buildings in Old Dhaka, Tejgaon and Sheorapara of the capital.
112.txt:The administrative building of Islamic University and the General Hospital in Kushtia and a 10-storey building in Feni also reportedly developed cracks.
1138.txt:Many mountain roads are cracked or blocked by landslides.
1138.txt:"We saw cracks emerging in the walls surrounding us - rubble was falling down."
113.txt:In Bangladesh, buildings across the old part of the capital Dhaka cracked from the impact, and several workers in a garment factory were hurt as they rushed to escape.
1143.txt:All across the country, residents ran out of homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. And clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
1145.txt:The disaster appeared to spare none, VVIPs included. President Ram Baran Yadav spent Saturday night in a tent after the quake caused several cracks in his office-cum-residence.
1147.txt:http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/patna/Cracks-in-Janaki-temple/articleshow/47063249.cms
1147.txt:Cracks in Janaki temple
1147.txt:JANAKPURDHAM, Nepal: The 8th dome of the famous Janki temple, constructed in 1874, has broken down due to the quake. The eastern part of the temple has also developed cracks. Priests are afraid the temple may not be able to withstand another aftershock.Yet, around a thousand families are living near the temple area. The temple committee has organized a bhajan session to calm down the frayed nerves of people.The market place is closed. Only medicine shops and two-three other shops are open. The shops and schools are closed as per the administration's order. The area is sans phone connectivity now. After the first tremor on Saturday, people have left their houses and are living in the open in fear. People with relatives in India are shifting.Janani Devi, a shopowner, said all her relatives shifted to Patna on Sunday morning. "I didn't go as this was my husband's shop. He died two years back. If I have to die, I will prefer to die here," she said. Suraj Yadav, a builder, said, "My elder daughter is stuck at Kathmandu. I have shifted rest of the family to the temple." Chunri Kumara, a college student, said, "My parents went to Kathmandu for business and now I am left alone here."The administration is continuously making announcements asking people to stay away from concrete buildings. Having felt repeated aftershocks, most families are struck with fear. Rakhi, a student of Class VII said, "I feel like crying as my house may come down anytime. We all are living on the streets for the last two days. I have spent the whole day roaming around the temple premises and praying to god to save us."While crossing the border from Bhitta Mor on the Indian side to Nepal, rows of cars could be seen waiting for checking. People are trying to leave Nepal to avoid more disaster.At Janakpurdham, the boundary walls of the houses adjoining the temple have developed cracks. Fresh tremors have brought the town to a halt. People are keeping awake their children, fearing they might die if they fall asleep.The local taxi and bus services from Janakpurdham to Kathmandu have suspended their services. A few braveheart drivers are ready to carry passengers but are charging almost triple the usual charge. "We cannot sit idle and wait for the tremors to come. We have to earn to sustain ourselves. But hardly anybody is ready to go to Kathmandu or Pokhra," said Ashok, a taxi driver.At the checking point at Bhitta Mor, Indian security personnel are also facing hardship. An SSB jawan said, "For the last two days, we do not have telephone connectivity. The markets are closed and we are facing food scarcity. We are witnessing hundreds of families migrating from Nepal to India. Many of them have lost their last penny at Pokhra or Kathmandu, but somehow managed to save their lives and leaving for Patna."
1148.txt:Nepalese media have reported that the latest aftershock may have also claimed hundreds of lives near its epicenter, as it triggered landslides in the surrounding area. It is yet unclear, however, how many lives have been lost. The "second quake" - as many people are now calling the aftershock - also caused severe structural damage, given that many of the buildings that had only cracked during the first quake have now collapsed.
114.txt:In Bangladesh, buildings across the old part of the capital Dhaka cracked from the impact, and several workers in a garment factory were hurt as they rushed to escape.
1153.txt:Strong aftershocks further hampered aid and caused panic after the Saturday’s midday quake, which measured 7.9 on the Richter scale and flattened buildings, opened cracks in roads and knocked out phone networks.
1166.txt:A strong earthquake, measuring 6.7 on the Richter scale, rocked Nepal and various states of India this afternoon even as the death toll in yesterday's temblor mounted to 2,500 in Nepal and 62 in India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a top level meeting with Ministers of Home and Defence and other senior colleagues to assess the situation. Giving details of the meeting and rescue efforts launched by India in Nepal and in India, Home Secretary L C Goyal told reporters that 62 persons died in the earthquake related incidents in India while 259 others left injured. Mr Goyal said a maximum of 46 people have died in quake related accidents in Bihar followed by Uttar Pradesh (13), West Bengal (2) and Rajasthan (1). "We are in constant touch with the state governments,'' he said. As per report received, two people from Bihar are reported to have died in Nepal, hesaid. However, the National Disaster Response Force has been able to save eight people and recover 23 bodies of victims in the neighbouring country, Mr Goyal said. Mr Modi today expressed his feeling of sadness and grief with the people in his "Man Ki Baat" programme in All India Radio (AIR) against the backdrop of the recent devastating cyclone in Bihar and killer earthquake in Nepal and India, yesterday. He reassured India's solidarity and full support to Nepal in dealing with the calamity that took heavy toll on lives. Opening his speech Mr Modi said "Mann ki baat karne ka mann nahi ho raha aaj, (I do not feel like holding talk today as I do feel heavy hearted and sad).'' Earthquake has taken a toll on lives in India, but the effects in Nepal are horrific, he observed. "Nepal par kya beet rahi hai, un parivaron pe kya beet ti hogi, uski mai kalpanakar sakta hun(We cannot imagine what Nepal and the families staying there are going through)", he said. "Hindustan Iss aapada ke samay puri tareh Nepal ke saath hai, ham har Nepalike aansu poochenge, Unn logon ka dukh bhi hamara dukh hai"(we stand by Nepal in this hour of crisis, we would wipe out tears from every Nepali's eyes", an emotional Mr Modi assured. "Rescue operations is a priority, relief efforts are also on, despatch of relief material has already been initiated". Round of affected areas in Kathmandu, several streets have developed deep and wide cracks. These cracks were so deep that Vehicular traffic could not move on these districts. A number of guest houses near the damaged new bus stand in Kathmandu have caved in . people fear that many were feared trapped under these buildings. intermittent rains have started pounding the capital of this Himalayan state and people have huddled themselves in make shift camps which is dripping due to rains. MORE UNI TEAM NB-AT CH 2041 -- (UNI) -- C-1-1-DL0109-97541.Xml
1175.txt:The quake was more destructive for being shallow, toppling buildings, opening gaping cracks in roads and sending people scurrying into the open as aftershocks rattled their damaged homes.
117.txt:Sharmila Shrestha, 49, who has been in Canada for seven years said her family home sustained cracks, but no one was injured. “I am very scared for other people,” she said. “I’ve seen so many terrible pictures.”
118.txt:KATHMANDU, April 25 (Xinhua) -- The whole city of Kathmandu was shaking violently. Many buildings collapsed, and rubble and debris could be seen scattered among cracked streets.
1194.txt:Nearly 2,000 people are reported dead and more than 4,700 injured by the earthquake, which cracked roads and brought down much of the country's mobile phone network, according to the Nepalese authorities.
119.txt:In Nepal, buildings were flattened, roads cracked, telephone connectivity snapped and hospitals grappled with a large number of injured who were extricated from the rubble after the country was hit by the temblor at 11.41 a.m. India time. The epicentre of the quake was Nepal's Lamjung district, some 75 km northwest of capital Kathmandu. Over 50 aftershocks were also felt.
1204.txt:"I am not sure if anyone at the hotel died or suffered grave injuries but there was complete chaos. I had never imagined anything more horrifying. Everyone was shocked to witness buildings falling and the hotel where we were staying also developed huge cracks," he said.
1204.txt:"There were huge cracks on the highways and only heaps of damaged buildings were visible along it. Local residents and rescue teams were seen running for survivors," he said.
1214.txt:The death toll continued to rise after a violent 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck Nepal on Saturday, destroying ancient temples and triggering an avalanche on Mt. Everest, NBC News reported. A Nepalese police official said at least 1,910 people were killed in that country and about 4,700 people were injured, The Associated Press reported. At least 51 were killed in India, 17 in Tibet and two in Bangladesh, and two Chinese citizens died at the Nepal-China border, according to the AP. A senior trekking guide said 17 climbers and guides are believed to have died in an avalanche on Mount Everest triggered by the earthquake, the AP reported. It is believed to be the deadliest day in the mountain's history. Hospitals were overflowing with injured people, homes were damaged, phone lines were jammed and roads had gaping cracks running along them. Climbers on Mount Everest were sent running for their lives when the earthquake set off at least one avalanche. The epicenter of the earthquake was about 50 miles northwest of Kathmandu, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. Secretary of State John Kerry said he asked U.S. Ambassador to Nepal Peter Bodde to release an initial $1 million for humanitarian assistance.
1215.txt:Residents ran out of buildings in panic when the earthquake struck. Walls tumbled, large cracks opened on streets and walls, towers collapsed and clouds of dust began to swirl all around. "Our village has been almost wiped out," said Vim Tamang, a resident of Manglung, near the epicentre. "Most of our houses are either buried by landslide or damaged by shaking." He said half of the village's population was missing or dead. "All the villagers have gathered in the open area. We don't know what to do."
1217.txt:“We witnessed terrible scenes of destruction — hospitals were evacuated with patients being treated on the ground outside, homes and buildings demolished and some roads cracked wide open,” said Eleanor Trinchera, Caritas Australia program co-ordinator for Nepal, who was an hour outside the capital when the quake struck.
1231.txt:The quake was more destructive for being shallow, toppling buildings and opening gaping cracks in roads.
1242.txt:AHMEDABAD: For Gujarati survivors of the fatal bus accident in Nepal, it was like out of the frying pan into the fire. First, their ill-fated bus plunged some 100 metres down from the hilly road in Dhading district of Nepal killing 14 Gujarati pilgrims on April 22. Then the nature pulled the rug from under them in the form of quake.Ranchod Parmar, 52, one of the six accident critically injured admitted to Kathmandu's Norvic International Hospital, ran out of his ward wearing hospital pajamas as a powerful 7.9-magnitude earthquake shook Nepal capital on Saturday. He was not brought to Ahmedabad as he was not fit to be airlifted. Fear of quake, however, forced the critically injured to run for life, again!The scurrying patients gathered in the hospital's parking lot where the administration spread thin mattresses on the ground for them.Back home, emotions also ran high in Ahmedabad Civil Hospital where Parmar's wife Savita — one of the survivors in the accident, is being treated, along with four others."Ranchodbhai told me over phone that it was initially a loud banging, followed by rumbling, and intense shaking. He didn't know what it was. After hearing shrieks of other hospital occupants, he ran for cover. He didn't know what it was until somebody in the crowd shouted earthquake," Savita told TOI.Savita, however, thanked her stars that she was evacuated in a special plane of Indian Air Force and brought to Ahmedabad.Parmar's son Hitesh said: "My father was so scared that he was shivering even hours after the tremors stopped." Hitesh said his father told him that the hospital had withstood the deadly earthquake, but there were several cracks in the building. As tremors continued jolting Kathmandu, hundreds of people scurried out of their wards and assembled on the streets.
1244.txt:◆ U.S. Aid The United States expressed condolences for the lives lost and pledged an immediate $1 million for disaster relief. Secretary of State John Kerry said in a statement, "We are working closely with the government of Nepal to provide assistance and support... USAID is preparing to deploy a Disaster Assistance Response Team and is activating an Urban Search and Rescue Team to accompany disaster experts and assist with assessments of the situation." Additionally, the Obama administration activated an elite Virginia-based earthquake rescue team, and told another renowned team of specialists in Los Angeles to prepare for deployment. The 56-member unit deployed Sunday along with several USAID officials en route to Nepal. India's foreign secretary, Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, said three tons of supplies and 40 members of India's National Disaster Response Force were flying to Nepal. The country is also evacuating its nationals by air. China, Germany and Israel are among the countries also sending disaster personnel to the area. Kapil Shrestha, a professor at Tribhuvan University, was among the more fortunate residents of the Nepalese capital, Kathmandu. Although his house developed multiple cracks after the powerful earthquake, he said he was able to spend Saturday night indoors.
1253.txt:There are several cracks in a major road that connects Kathmandu to Bhaktapur and road transportation remains a challenge to supply relief items in some parts of Bhaktapur districts. The condition of highways is yet to be confirmed.
1264.txt:People gather near the cracks on the road caused by an earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic
1266.txt:When the earth first shook, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls.
1267.txt:Phayul.com reports that deep cracks were found in Tibet's National Road No. 318, which is two kilometers from Nyalam, as a result of the temblor. Several buildings and more than 1,000 houses in Nyalam and Kyirong counties were destroyed by the quake, as well as telecommunications lines. At Xigaze County, there were no casualties, but 54 temples were damaged after a separate 5.9-magnitude tremor shook Xigaze on Saturday evening.
1272.txt:“We witnessed terrible scenes of destruction — hospitals were evacuated with patients being treated on the ground outside, homes and buildings demolished and some roads cracked wide open,” said Eleanor Trinchera, Caritas Australia program co-ordinator for Nepal, who was an hour outside the capital when the quake struck.
1275.txt:When the earth first shook, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls.
127.txt:According to Nepalese Home Ministry figures, 150 people lost lives in neighbouring Bhaktapur, 67 in Lalitpur and 37 in Dhading district. Besides, 20 people were killed in the country's eastern region, 33 in western region and rest in other parts of the Himalayan nation.The earthquake around 11:56 am with epicentre at Lamjung, around 80 kilometers northwest of Kathmandu, had its impact in several cities in Bihar, West Bengal and UP and tremors were felt across vast stretches of east and northeast India.It was also felt in Southern and Western parts of India, China, Bhutan and as far as Pakistan and Bangladesh.Miraculously the famous 5th century Pashupatinath temple here was undamaged, while a number of old temples were razed.Several buildings, most of them old, in the densely- populated Kathmandu Valley collapsed, killing hundreds.At least 180 bodies have been retrieved from the debris of two-century old nine-storey landmark Dharhara tower in the centre of the capital.Kathmandu's Darbar Square, a UNESCO World Heritage site, was completely damaged in the quake which was the worst to hit Nepal and surrounding regions after the earthquake of 8.4 magnitude which occurred along the Nepal-Bihar border in 1934.Video footages showed a number of buildings having caved in or developing huge cracks. Many of the city roads have suffered wide craters in the impact, affecting movement of vehicles and rescue operations.Army, police and emergency workers were pressed into service for rescue of those trapped and rushing injured survivors to hospitals. Many of the injured could be seen suffering bleeding injuries covered in dust from the debris.Indian Embassy spokesperson Abhay Kumar said some walls have collapsed in the impact of the earthquake and the embassy has set up two helplines +977 98511 07021, +977 98511 35141.Fifty doctors have arrived from India to provide emergency services.The daughter of a local employee in the Indian embassy died and his wife suffered serious injuries when a house in the mission complex in Kathmandu collapsed during the quake.Nearly 125 people from Maharashtra and Telangana are stranded in Nepal after the earthquake.Around 80 people from Nashik had gone to Nepal for pilgrimage while 15-20 people were on a trekking expedition. 25 tourists from Hyderabad, who are in Kathmandu, are safe."Now, all of us are safe in an open ground, close to the Pashupatinath temple in Kathmandu," Gowrishankar, who took the tourists, said.
1286.txt:"The staff is working overtime as this is a humanitarian crisis. I cannot confirm the net worth of the damage. Two bridges have cracked and many buildings have also developed cracks," she added.
1292.txt:"There were at least three big quakes at night and early morning. How can we feel safe? This is never-ending and everyone is scared and worried," said Sundar Sah. "I hardly got much sleep. I was waking up every few hours and glad that I was alive." When the earth first shook, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls.
1295.txt:In Kathmandu, tens of thousands of people spent the night sleeping in parks or on a golf course. Others camped in open squares lined by cracked buildings and piles of rubble.
1296.txt:When the earth first shook, residents fled homes and buildings in panic as walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets. After the chaos of Saturday - when little organized rescue and relief was seen - there was more order on Sunday as rescue teams fanned out across the city.
129.txt:Video footages showed a number of buildings having caved in or developing huge cracks. Many of the city roads have suffered wide craters in the impact, affecting movement of vehicles and rescue operations. Army, police and emergency workers were pressed into service for rescue of those trapped and rushing injured survivors to hospitals. Many of the injured could be seen suffering bleeding injuries covered in dust from the debris.
1305.txt:From Sagarmatha (head of the sky), the Nepali name for Mt Everest, to the Indian frontiers, Nepal lies in ruins. Saturday's earthquake has wrought death and devastation; it has destroyed a part of the landlocked nation's history as well. The number of casualties, and cracking and crashing of houses continues to grow by the hour.At Sundhara near the Army headquarters in Kathmandu, the Bhimsen Tower, popularly known as Dharhara, is reduced to rubble. The nine-storey structure was built by PM Bhimsen Thapa. This was Nepalis' answer to Kolkata's Ochterlony Monument (later renamed Shahid Minar by Bengal's Communists). The East India Company had built it in memory of Gen David Ochterlony who defeated Nepal in the 1814-16 Anglo-Gurkha war.A little south of Kasthamandap, a shrine that gave the city its name, many ancient temples lie flattened.Kasthamandap is dedicated to Guru Gorakhnath (guardian deity of the Gorkhas). The nearby Hanuman Dhoka Durbar (old palace) stands damaged.The Patan Durbar Square, 4km south of Hanuman Dhoka, and Bhaktapur, an ancient city 10km east of Kathmandu, too are a picture of devastation. Restoration of these great icons of Newar civilization is near impossible. Destruction in the verdant hills lying between Kathmandu in the east and Pokhara in the west is equally shattering. This stretch and beyond in the west is known as the nursery of Gorkha soldiers who serve in the Indian, British and Nepali armies.Nepal has more than 100,000 veterans from the Indian armed forces. Most of them collect pension from the military pension office of the Indian embassy in Pokhara. Britain too runs a recruitment centre in this picturesque town.Both countries are concerned about their serving and retired fighters.News of death and destruction continues to pour in from remote Rasua on the Tibetan border to Morang right next to Bihar's Araria district. At Janakpur close to Bihar's Sitamarhi, the tip of the Janaki Temple (where, some claimed, Sita was born) is damaged.Equally disturbing are the reports of the death of mountaineers. The intensity of the quake was so big that over a dozen villagers died on the Tibetan plateau across the Himalayas.The images of destruction take the Nepalese back to the quake of 1934 when over 10,000 people died, mostly in Kathmandu Valley. Those days the Himalayan nation was in the dark age of Rana rule. Eighty-one years later, it has a people's government, though without a constitution. But tragedy remains the same.
1306.txt:"We witnessed terrible scenes of destruction, hospitals were evacuated with patients being treated on the ground outside, homes and buildings demolished and some roads cracked wide open," said Eleanor Trinchera, Caritas Australia Program Coordinator for Nepal.
1307.txt:"We witnessed terrible scenes of destruction -- hospitals were evacuated with patients being treated on the ground outside, homes and buildings demolished and some roads cracked wide open," said Eleanor Trinchera, Caritas Australia Program Coordinator for Nepal.
1309.txt:Residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
1335.txt:“We witnessed terrible scenes of destruction — hospitals were evacuated with patients being treated on the ground outside, homes and buildings demolished and some roads cracked wide open,” said Eleanor Trinchera, Caritas Australia program co-ordinator for Nepal, who was an hour outside the capital when the quake struck.
134.txt:In Nepal, buildings were flattened, roads cracked, telephone connectivity snapped and hospitals grappled with a large number of injured who were extricated from the rubble after the country was hit by the temblor at 11.41 a.m. India time.
1351.txt:The main building of the ICIMOD headquarters has only a few cracks, but the adjacent Bhutan Pavilion — a gift from the Bhutanese government — totally collapsed. Since our server returned to normal on Monday, we have received numerous kind messages and good wishes from our friends and colleagues around the world. We are trying to pull ourselves together to support the rescue and relief efforts.
1351.txt:We had a team of glaciologists out in the field near Everest. They were crossing a frozen lake when the earthquake happened. The ice began to deform and large cracks emerged under their feet. Thankfully, they managed to escape and got to safe ground.
1362.txt:“We witnessed terrible scenes of destruction — hospitals were evacuated with patients being treated on the ground outside, homes and buildings demolished and some roads cracked wide open,” said Eleanor Trinchera, Caritas Australia program co-ordinator for Nepal, who was an hour outside the capital when the quake struck.
1377.txt:As Nepal trembled, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
1408.txt:Montana DOJ unveils new program to crack down on organized crime in Montana Evidence from MHP Adjudicated Cases $1.5 million of stolen goods. (photo credit: Montana Highway Patrol) Wednesday, October 18, 2017 4:09 PM EDT Updated: A new Montana Department of Justice program has hit the streets aimed at cracking down on organized crime. More>>
1421.txt:ATHENS - Nine Greek climbers who were robbed by a sherpa guide in Kathmandu told Sunday of their lucky escape after heading home from Nepal the day before an earthquake triggered the deadliest disaster in Mount Everest's history. "We arrived in Kathmandu last week and there we discovered that our sherpa had disappeared with the money we had given him," Nerit Sophoclis Paitis, one of the climbers told Nerit, Greek public television. "We reported the incident to the Nepali authorities then decided to return to Greece on Friday, the eve of the earthquake. In the end we were lucky, but we have friends at the (Everest) camps that are living through very difficult moments," he added.The group was comprised of nine Greeks and nine Indians, all of whom got out safely. Saturday's 7.8-magnitude quake in Nepal killed more than 2,500 people, the worst disaster to hit the impoverished Himalayan nation in more than 80 years. Eighteen of the victims died after an avalanche at the Everest base camp, with another 60 injured. Powerful aftershocks rocked Nepal Sunday. Aid groups and governments worldwide intensified efforts Sunday to help earthquake-hit Nepal, but blocked roads, downed power lines and overcrowded hospitals posed formidable challenges in an already poor country.As the death toll in the Himalayan nation surpassed 2,500, the US together with European and Asian nations sent emergency crews to reinforce those scrambling to find survivors in the devastated capital Kathmandu and in cut-off rural areas. "Tragically, more bodies are being pulled from collapsed buildings every hour," the Australian Red Cross said in a statement. "Communication is down in many areas. Widespread destruction, rubble and landslides are preventing access to provide aid in many villages." Mike Bruce, regional communications manager for the Plan International aid organisation, said many areas -- both rural and in some of the larger towns -- had suffered landslides and roads were blocked. Although mobile networks appeared to be being restored by mid-afternoon on Sunday, he said, coverage remained sporadic."People are sleeping on the streets and cooking outside for the most part. And we are talking about very, very poor areas of Nepal -- areas that are already suffering a great deal," said Bruce. Other aid organisations relayed fears that stocks of essential supplies were rapidly running out, and described the fearsome effects of the quake. "We witnessed terrible scenes of destruction -- hospitals were evacuated with patients being treated on the ground outside, homes and buildings demolished and some roads cracked wide open," said Eleanor Trinchera, Caritas Australia programme coordinator for Nepal, who was an hour outside the capital when the quake struck.A lack of electricity would soon be complicated by a scarcity of water, aid groups said, with medical supplies also dwindling, while Oxfam told AFP morgues were reaching capacity. "Communication systems are congested and hospitals are crowded and are running out of room for storing dead bodies," Helen Szoke, the charity's Australia chief executive, told AFP. The World Health Organization gave emergency health kits with medicines and supplies to hospitals treating the injured.Survivors also slept in the open in Kathmandu overnight, braving the cold for fear of being crushed by teetering buildings. Hundreds of structures, including office blocks and a landmark nine-storey tower, crashed to the ground at around midday on Saturday when the 7.8-magnitude quake struck. As Nepal began to take stock of the devastation, Britain released £5 million ($7.6 million, 7.0 million euros) for the British Red Cross and "aid workers on the ground so they can provide desperately needed supplies", international development secretary Justine Greening said. Britain has long historic ties with Nepal and recruits Gurkhas to serve in its army. A US disaster response team was also en route and an initial $1 million in aid to address immediate needs had been authorised, the US Agency for International Development said.Australia and New Zealand together pledged more than $4.5 million, and South Korea promised $1 million in humanitarian aid. India on Sunday dispatched 13 military aircraft loaded with tonnes of food, tents, blankets and other aid for its devastated neighbour. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the first priority was to rescue those still trapped."Even now many people buried under the rubble must be alive," Modi said during his monthly radio programme. "Our effort will be to rescue as many people alive as possible." Russia said two of its planes would fly out Sunday, carrying specialist rescuers, doctors and psychologists as well as equipment including helicopters and drones. Sri Lanka sent a military C-130 aircraft carrying a 48-member medical and relief team along with supplies and power generators, while a second aircraft would take more doctors and nurses.Pakistan said two C-130 aircraft carrying equipment for a 30-bed hospital, food and search and rescue teams had arrived in Nepal. A 62-member Chinese search and rescue team with sniffer dogs was on the ground in Kathmandu and a medical team would be mobilised, state news agency Xinhua reported. A Singaporean search and rescue team was also heading for Nepal, while Japan's 70-strong emergency services team departed on Sunday. A 45-strong team of rescue experts, doctors and other experts, from Belgium, Germany and Luxembourg, was leaving on a Belgian military plane.France's foreign ministry said it had dispatched a rescue team carrying essential supplies. Germany and Spain also pledged support and assistance, with Norway promising to provide 30 million krone ($3.9 million, 3.5 million euros) in humanitarian aid. Israel said it was sending an aid delegation, including a team of paramedics and doctors. Charity Christian Aid launched an appeal for funds and said it was working with partner agencies to reach the worst hit areas. Numerous aid groups and NGOs also announced help. Medecins Sans Frontieres (Doctors Without Borders) was dispatching an inflatable hospital with a 60-80 bed capacity.
1422.txt:HONG KONG, April 26, 2015 (AFP) - Aid groups and governments worldwide intensified efforts Sunday to help earthquake-hit Nepal, but blocked roads, downed power lines and overcrowded hospitals posed formidable challenges in an already poor country.As the death toll in the Himalayan nation surpassed 2,500, the US together with European and Asian nations sent emergency crews to reinforce those scrambling to find survivors in the devastated capital Kathmandu and in cut-off rural areas.“Tragically, more bodies are being pulled from collapsed buildings every hour,” the Australian Red Cross said in a statement. “Communication is down in many areas. Widespread destruction, rubble and landslides are preventing access to provide aid in many villages.”Mike Bruce, regional communications manager for the Plan International aid organisation, said many areas -- both rural and in some of the larger towns -- had suffered landslides and roads were blocked. Although mobile networks appeared to be being restored by mid-afternoon on Sunday, he said, coverage remained sporadic.“People are sleeping on the streets and cooking outside for the most part. And we are talking about very, very poor areas of Nepal -- areas that are already suffering a great deal,” said Bruce.Other aid organisations relayed fears that stocks of essential supplies were rapidly running out, and described the fearsome effects of the quake.“We witnessed terrible scenes of destruction -- hospitals were evacuated with patients being treated on the ground outside, homes and buildings demolished and some roads cracked wide open,” said Eleanor Trinchera, Caritas Australia programme coordinator for Nepal, who was an hour outside the capital when the quake struck.A lack of electricity would soon be complicated by a scarcity of water, aid groups said, with medical supplies also dwindling, while Oxfam told AFP morgues were reaching capacity.“Communication systems are congested and hospitals are crowded and are running out of room for storing dead bodies,” Helen Szoke, the charity’s Australia chief executive, told AFP.The World Health Organization gave emergency health kits with medicines and supplies to hospitals treating the injured.Survivors also slept in the open in Kathmandu overnight, braving the cold for fear of being crushed by teetering buildings.Hundreds of structures, including office blocks and a landmark nine-storey tower, crashed to the ground at around midday on Saturday when the 7.8-magnitude quake struck.As Nepal began to take stock of the devastation, Britain released 5 million ($7.6 million, 7.0 million euros) for the British Red Cross and “aid workers on the ground so they can provide desperately needed supplies”, international development secretary Justine Greening said.Britain has long historic ties with Nepal and recruits Gurkhas to serve in its army.A US disaster response team was also en route and an initial $1 million in aid to address immediate needs had been authorised, the US Agency for International Development said.Australia and New Zealand together pledged more than $4.5 million, and South Korea promised $1 million in humanitarian aid.India on Sunday dispatched 13 military aircraft loaded with tonnes of food, tents, blankets and other aid for its devastated neighbour.Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the first priority was to rescue those still trapped.“Even now many people buried under the rubble must be alive,” Modi said during his monthly radio programme. “Our effort will be to rescue as many people alive as possible.”Russia said two of its planes would fly out Sunday, carrying specialist rescuers, doctors and psychologists as well as equipment including helicopters and drones.Sri Lanka sent a military C-130 aircraft carrying a 48-member medical and relief team along with supplies and power generators, while a second aircraft would take more doctors and nurses.Pakistan said two C-130 aircraft carrying equipment for a 30-bed hospital, food and search and rescue teams had arrived in Nepal.A 62-member Chinese search and rescue team with sniffer dogs was on the ground in Kathmandu and a medical team would be mobilised, state news agency Xinhua reported.A Singaporean search and rescue team was also heading for Nepal, while Japan’s 70-strong emergency services team departed on Sunday.A 45-strong team of rescue experts, doctors and other experts, from Belgium, Germany and Luxembourg, was leaving on a Belgian military plane.France’s foreign ministry said it had dispatched a rescue team carrying essential supplies.Germany and Spain also pledged support and assistance, with Norway promising to provide 30 million krone ($3.9 million, 3.5 million euros) in humanitarian aid.The EU released three million euros ($3.3 million) in aid, which is in addition to assistance offered by individual member countries and the deployment of European Commission humanitarian aid and civil protection experts to the crisis area.Israel said it was sending an aid delegation, including a team of paramedics and doctors.Charity Christian Aid launched an appeal for funds and said it was working with partner agencies to reach the worst hit areas.Numerous aid groups and NGOs also announced help. Medecins Sans Frontieres (Doctors Without Borders) was dispatching an inflatable hospital with a 60-80 bed capacity.
142.txt:Kathmandu is home to ancient, wooden Hindu temples. Photographs posted online showed buildings reduced to rubble, with large cracks along roads and residents sitting in the street holding babies.
1465.txt:In Kathmandu, tens of thousands of people spent the night sleeping in parks or on a golf course. Others camped in open squares lined by cracked buildings and piles of rubble.
147.txt:In Nepals Lamjung, the epicentre of the quake, many buildings have been flattened. There are reports of cracks developing at the Kathmandu airport. Flights have been diverted to India.
14.txt:Residents ran out of buildings in panic when the earthquake struck. Walls tumbled, large cracks opened on streets and walls, towers collapsed and clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
1510.txt:Indian companies having business in earthquake-hit Nepal said that their operations remain unaffected in Nepal, according to a media report.The earthquake, which occurred on Saturday in Nepal, has destroyed numerous homes and historic sites in the Himalayan Nation. Fifty per cent of the houses, schools have been collapsed. Thousands are living in open spaces demanding shelter and water, the report added.The death toll from Nepal's earthquake rose to 2,789 on Monday, two days after the massive earthquake ripped across Nepal.“The natural disaster at Nepal and surrounding areas has been deeply moving and distressing as it left many dead or stranded,” Uninor said in a statement on Sunday.The telecom company further said, “All ISD calls to Nepal from Uninor network will be charged as local calls till 28th April, 2015.”Dabur India Ltd on Sunday said that its factory building developed cracks but there was no loss to life or property, the report further said.Coca Cola India said it had temporarily halted its operations in Nepal a day after quake rattled in Nepal. The company's operations in Nepal were largely unaffected and its employees are safe. But the company had temporarily stopped its operations.
152.txt:As Nepal trembled, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
1587.txt:"Apparently the airport tarmac is cracked," she said.
164.txt:http://mumbaimirror.com/mumbai/cover-story/Our-hotel-cracked-through-the-middle/articleshow/47054340.cms
164.txt:‘Our hotel cracked through the middle’
164.txt:Juhu couple Sahil Mane and Tara Kaushal landed in Kathmandu last Monday on a two-week vacation. Sahil, a photographer, and Tara, a media consultant, hadn't had a holiday in two years, and selected Nepal for an adrenalin rush, complete with treks and bike rides. Yesterday, 11.56 am Nepal time, they literally saw the world crumble in front of them.As the earthquake of a 7.9 magnitude hit Nepal - its worst in 80 years - Tara and Sahil were getting a tattoo done at Hotel Yak and Yeti, in the capital Kathmandu. First the lights went off, then came the tremors, and the reality hit them when they saw a man jumping from a window of a building opposite. That's when they realised it was serious trouble."It was crazy, the ground was shaking and the buildings were crumbling to dust in front of our eyes," Sahil said. "We rushed out and saw a man jumping from a building. We saw a huge crack in the middle of our hotel building. It had cracked from the middle. Several people were buried under the debris within minutes."The couple, like hundreds of thousands of people trapped in Kathmandu, have taken refuge in a park. No-one dares to venture indoors as there are warnings of more tremors. "We were attending a tattoo convention with more than 70 artists from all over the world when the chandeliers hanging from the roof began swinging wildly. "The hotels are shut, and people have lined the streets, parks, everywhere," Sahil said.The Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu was indefinitely shut on Saturday. However, by evening yesterday, the airlines announced the resumption of flights to Nepal from Sunday. A few airlines, such as SpiceJet, have been asked to keep aircraft ready to lift supplies and bring back stranded passengers.Around 60 people from Maharashtra are believed to be stranded in Nepal. Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis has directed state officials to keep in touch with them and assured all possible help, and a rescue team of 22 members from the Mumbai Fire Brigade are expected to fly to the Himalayan country."I have instructed the state officials to be in touch with tourists from Maharashtra in Nepal and to give all the support and help to them," Fadnavis tweeted.The Juhu couple said they were looking forward to get out of Nepal as soon as possible, as even water was scarce. Thousands of tourists have been stranded without food and water, the couple said, adding the people had pitched tents at the parks."As soon as we realised there was an earthquake, we started looking for water. Everything has been shut. As we walked the narrows streets, which resemble the by-lanes of Bandra, walls around us were collapsing. There are people from all over the world who are stranded. We are lucky that we had come prepared for the music festival, and carried tents, sleeping bags and sweaters," Sahil said.
166.txt:He said it was unlikely that they could return to Kathmandu anytime soon since the roads and highways are damaged with huge cracks in them. “ It’s most unfortunate but Nepal just doesn’t have the capacity to handle such major calamities. “
1681.txt:Facebook Twitter Pinterest Amateur video shows large cracks down the middle of a road in Nepal after the earthquake
1716.txt:'There are cracks all over the building,' he said. 'I'm not sleeping because of the baby - which is a good reason - but I'm also not sleeping because of worries about the building collapsing.'
1720.txt:People gather near the cracks on the road caused by an earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic
172.txt:Many residents came out of their houses in the city and its suburbs. Cracks were visible in some houses in Kolkata. Roads in several areas of the city also caved in.
1730.txt:“We witnessed terrible scenes of destruction — hospitals were evacuated with patients being treated on the ground outside, homes and buildings demolished and some roads cracked wide open,” said Eleanor Trinchera, Caritas Australia program co-ordinator for Nepal, who was an hour outside the capital when the quake struck.
175.txt:In Nepal, buildings were flattened, roads cracked, telephone connectivity snapped and hospitals grappled with a large number of injured who were extricated from the rubble after the country was hit by the temblor at 11.41 a.m. India time.
1779.txt:"I was in a small alleyway when the earthquake struck. It knocked me over. I felt strong shaking, stones were falling from above. I couldn't see anything as the air was full of heavy dust. The shaking went on for about 20 or 30 seconds, I can't remember exactly. When I ran into the street, I saw telegraph poles had fallen down, walls collapsed, buildings with cracks through them. People were standing in the street. There were two strong aftershocks. Many people started crying. There were no phone signals and we couldn't send out messages," a Chinese tourist in Nepal said.
177.txt:As Nepal trembled, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
1781.txt:When the earth first shook, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls.
1781.txt:Calbuco had another spectacular outburst early Thursday with lightning crackling through a dark sky turned reddish orange by the explosion.
179.txt:The quake pulled down buildings, temples and towers, felled trees and electric posts and left yawning cracks on roads across Nepal, specially in Kathmandu, the capital.
1804.txt:Tens of thousands spent the night sleeping in parks or on a golf course. Others camped in open squares lined by cracked buildings and piles of rubble.
1813.txt:One of the cracks ran through our hotel, splitting it in two. Everybody was panicking.” She and Nag decided to head to Hotel Yak and Yeti, where the tattoo convention was being held. They had heard that other attendees were going to gather there and then go to Kathmandu Airport.
181.txt:In Nepal, buildings came crashing down, roads cracked, telephone connectivity snapped and hospitals grappled with a large number of injured who were extricated from the rubble after the country was hit by the temblor at 11.41 a.m. India time. The epicentre of the quake was Nepal’s Lamjung district, some 75 km northwest of capital Kathmandu. As many as 15 aftershocks were felt.
1825.txt:The buildings of BDS donated by international and national donors are cracked in many parts; walls are almost about the fall. The ground floors of both the building are damaged and have huge cracks that can tumble at any time.
1825.txt:Blue Diamond Society's main building has a crack, as told by staff; they feel its not a major crack but will need repair. Blue Diamond Society's care home for HIV positive LGBTIs also has a crack and need good repair. One staff of Blue Diamond Society who works for care support centre, JYOTI PRAKASH, is missing so far.
1840.txt:Belapur resident Suneeta Chhetri, who hails from Pokhra, the site of the earthquake, said her family is going through a tough time. “They are safe, but they cannot stay in their house and are living in tents built on a playground, without electricity and phone services. From their tent, they saw their house develop cracks,” said Chhetri. “We are shattered. With many landmarks destroyed, we have lost our childhood memories,” said Chhetri.
1841.txt:"In the midst of all the destruction, we saw the extremes of human nature on one end there were people who cared only for their own lives, and on the opposite, were those who helped others without thinking," said Kritika Ajmani, a Mumbai-based blogger who witnessed Saturday's earthquake in Kathmandu.Ajmani was accompanied by Shubham Nag, both 24-year-old bloggers from Mumbai who had gone to attend the International Nepal Tattoo Convention from April 24-26. However, the convention attended by 2,000 tattoo artists from around the world - was cut short when the first tremors shook Kathmandu around 11.41 am.At the time, the duo was at Hotel Ambassador, where they were staying. When they saw the lobby's chandeliers shaking, they ran out onto the streets to see the enormous damage wrought by the quake. Ajmani, a Santacruz resident, said, "There were huge craters on the ground. One of the cracks ran through our hotel, splitting it in two. Everybody was panicking." She and Nag decided to head to Hotel Yak and Yeti, where the tattoo convention was being held. They had heard that other attendees were going to gather there and then go to Kathmandu Airport.They had to walk for miles to get there, as even when they managed to find a taxi, the roads were too congested. "Our only view en route was total destruction. There was a public hospital that had collapsed and people were dragging patients out from the rubble.The special forces were doing a commendable job of encouraging people and guiding them to the embassy," Nag an Andheri resident recalled. They reached the airport hours later, and finally checked in around 7.30 pm. But the ordeal was far from over; this was when they saw the people at their most vulnerable, said Ajmani.Most showed great lack of discipline and patience, and did not bother to help women, children or the elderly. "The authorities were calling out names of women, children and elderly who were to board the first flight to Delhi at 9 pm. But the people simply paid no heed and were forcing their way in.They almost ran over a six-year-old child in the stampede," she added. But if some were selfish, there were also those who were selfless. The child was saved by another youngster who got hurt in the process. A few guards and youths took charge of the situation and made a human chain, restricting the path of the crowd so people could board the plane in an orderly manner.Ajmani and Nag eventually boarded the third flight which left Kathmandu around 11.30 pm, after experiencing the trauma for nearly 12 hours. Now safe in Delhi and looking forward to returning home to Santacruz this evening, Ajmani said, "In those 12 hours, we saw the best and the worst of humanity. We learnt the value of human life and to what extent one would go to save it."
1856.txt:In the ancient temple town of Bhaktapur, east of Kathmandu, many residents were living in tents in a school compound after centuries old buildings collapsed or developed huge cracks.
1869.txt:NEW DELHI: Seven missing Indian women pilgrims from Assam were confirmed dead in earthquake-hit Nepal on Monday. They were part of a group that had left for Nepal on April 23. Their relatives have approached the government for help in airlifting their bodies for the final rites."We want the bodies to be handed back to us. We want to see them for one last time," said one of the deceased, Rina Das's daughter, Nabanita.Officials said they were trying to get in touch with the ministry of external affairs for getting the bodies. But, they said, their priority was to evacuate people trapped in Kathmandu.Separately, Telugu movie choreographer K Vijay was killed in Nepal on Monday when an SUV he was in overturned due to rain and aftershock of the temblor. He was part of a film unit on their way to Kathmandu from Kokhra.In Bihar, fresh tremors triggered panic across the state on Monday, hours after the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said it has discontinued alerts as no major aftershocks were recorded.IMD (Patna) scientist R K Giri explained that aftershocks would continue for the next few days till the tectonic plates settle down. "The intensity as well as frequency will continue to decrease," Giri said.Bihar was the worst hit in India following the Saturday's Himalayan earthquake with 56 deaths. "The overall toll in India is 72," said home secretary L C Goyal.A 60-year-old woman, Roop Devi, and her granddaughter, Kajal (10), died after they were trapped under the debris of their house following an aftershock at Ruwada in Uttar Pradesh's Aonla tehsil on Sunday.The decrepit house had developed cracks earlier when the earthquake epicentered in Nepal hit the area.SP Brijesh Srivastava said, "The family of the victims said in their complaint that a balcony collapsed after the foundation of the house was shaken by the tremors. Cracks were visible on the walls after the quake. A team from Aonla tehsil has begun a probe the matter. A report will be sent to the state government seeking compensation for the kin of the victims under the Natural Disasters Relief Fund."Back in Nepal, the fate of 17 missing pilgrims from Madhya Pradesh remained unclear. They belong to three families of Shahdol district, and had left for Pashupatinath temple on April 23."My grandmother Uma Devi Rathore, 74, my cousin Ayush Rathore, 15, and uncle Mohanlal Rathore, 49, along with my aunty Madhu Rathore, 45, went with other 13 people of our neighbourhood to Nepal," Shristi Rathore told TOI over phone."The last time they contacted us was on April 25 at 7.30 pm when they were in Nautanwa town. We have no information about them since then.''Separately, at least 300 Indians, mostly Biharis, returned to Raxual in Bihar from Nepal on Sunday night and Monday.
1871.txt:Two jawans of the Bihar Military Police's Gorkha battalion point at cracks in the ceiling and walls of a building at their battalion headquarters on Monday. Picture by Deepak Kumar Megh Bahadur Gurung, a constable with the Bihar Military Police (BMP)'s Gorkha battalion, could not control his emotions and broke down before the commandant of the elite force ahead of his departure for home in Nepal on Monday. Deployed at chief minister Nitish Kumar's official residence at 7 Circular Road in Patna, Gurung became restless after learning his mother was "serious". His house collapsed in the earthquake that hit Nepal on Saturday. His mother, aged about 48 years, suffered serious injuries in the incident. A resident of Nepal's Tenhu district, Gurung went to the commandant of the BMP's Gorkha battalion, Nishant Kumar Tiwary, in Patna on Monday for leave. Within no time, the commandant granted him leave and asked him to wait for the bus that would leave from Patna for Raxaul near India-Nepal border in the evening. "I received a phone call from my relative in Nepal around 11am on Monday when I was on duty at the chief minister's residence. The caller asked me to leave for my native place immediately as my mother was very serious. I immediately decided to leave for my hometown, around 150km from Kathmandu, the capital of Nepal," he told The Telegraph. Gurung is among the 59 and odd Gorkha battalion personnel, who have been passing sleepless nights ever since the earthquake in Nepal. "I have been trying for the past three days to contact my mother at Pokhra in Nepal but in vain," said another constable Bhim Bahadur Gurung. He said he had approached the commandant for leave because he wanted to visit his ancestral house at Pokhra, the epicentre of Saturday's earthquake in Nepal. He has learnt that over 1,000 people were killed and 90 per cent houses collapsed in Pokhra. "My mother stays there alone. I am concerned about her well-being," he added. Similarly, Ashit Singh Vishwakarma and Ganga Thapa, both constables, approached the commandant for leave. While Ganga is worried about her in-laws living in Kathmandu, Ashit is concerned about his wife and two minor children. A visibly upset Vishwakarma said his wife Priyanka and two children - Aista and another nine-month old baby - lived in Kathmandu. "I have not been able to reach my family even after three days of the tragedy," he lamented. Commandant Tiwary said he had arranged a special bus to drop the personnel of Nepalese origin at the Raxaul border in East Champaran district, around 200km north of Patna. They would later leave for their respective places in Nepal from Raxaul, he said. The officer said the personnel of the Gorkha battalion were deployed at the residences of the VVIPs, including the governor, chief minister and the Chief Justice of the Patna High Court. "They are known for their bravery and valour. They are dutiful and disciplined as well," Tiwary said. The special bus carrying the jawans left for Raxaul in the evening. Their colleagues wished them "good luck".
1887.txt:Filiba said the planes could not come soon enough. “There are cracks all over the building,” he said. “I’m not sleeping because of the baby – which is a good reason – but I’m also not sleeping because of worries about the building collapsing.”
1888.txt:"There are cracks all over the building," he said. "I'm not sleeping because of the baby - which is a good reason - but I'm also not sleeping because of worries about the building collapsing."
1889.txt:"There are cracks all over the building," he said. "I`m not sleeping because of the baby - which is a good reason - but I`m also not sleeping because of worries about the building collapsing."
188.txt:The fesitval of lights Diwali is finally here and its a time for enjoyment and celebration with family. Although firecrackers may not be your cup of tea, or might be banned based on where you live, music is enough to add a blast to the celebrations. While the very first Diwali, which is said to have been celebrated in Ayodhya, celebrating the return of Lord Ram after defeating Ravana, may not have had the kind of music we enjoy these days, its no reason you have to stick to aartis and bhajans only...
1892.txt:Designed to send alerts to computers, municipal agencies and others when an earthquake will be powerful enough to crack walls, Japan's system has issued public alerts since 2007.
189.txt:Dilshad Ali Khan, a senior teacher at Indian school, Riyadh, said, “This is the worst quake people have seen in 100 years as tremors continued at regular intervals, forcing families to spent the nights out of their homes as they feared aftershocks in view the 48-hour alert issued by the local administration.” “Moreover, the wall of my house has developed a crack, which is disturbing,” added Khan.
189.txt:Abdul Qadir Khan from Bihar, said, “After years of service, I constructed a new house and I was happy. However, I am disheartened after learning that a crack has appeared in a wall of my home following the quake which claimed 42 lives in the state left hundreds injured, mostly in Sitamarhi, Darbhanga, Champaran, Sheohar and Madhubani districts.”
189.txt:Dilshad Ali Khan, a senior teacher at Indian school, Riyadh, said, “This is the worst quake people have seen in 100 years as tremors continued at regular intervals, forcing families to spent the nights out of their homes as they feared aftershocks in view the 48-hour alert issued by the local administration.” “Moreover, the wall of my house has developed a crack, which is disturbing,” added Khan.
189.txt:Abdul Qadir Khan from Bihar, said, “After years of service, I constructed a new house and I was happy. However, I am disheartened after learning that a crack has appeared in a wall of my home following the quake which claimed 42 lives in the state left hundreds injured, mostly in Sitamarhi, Darbhanga, Champaran, Sheohar and Madhubani districts.”
1908.txt:Kishor Rana’s amateur video contains aerial shots of collapsed buildings, shattered temples and roads riven with enormous cracks and gouges.
191.txt:Nepal bore the brunt of the calamity accounting for at least 449 deaths counted so far and the most of destruction that pulled down buildings, temples and towers, felled trees and electric posts and left yawning cracks on roads.
192.txt:In Nepal, buildings came crashing down, roads cracked, telephone connectivity snapped and hospitals grappled with a large number of injured who were extricated from the rubble after the country was hit by the temblor at 11.41 a.m. India time. The epicentre of the quake was Nepal's Lamjung district, some 75 km northwest of capital Kathmandu. As many as 15 aftershocks were felt.
196.txt:Cracks appeared in a Grameen bank building at Kaiserpatti area under Sadar police station, a report from Kisanganj said.Chief Minister Nitish Kumar spoke to Chief Secretary Anjani Kumar Singh, state police chief P K Thakur and directed them to alert people particularly of areas bordering Nepal.The DGP told PTI that in deference of the CM's direction, all police heads of the districts have been directed to send alerts to police stations on wireless and assess the extent of damage.Sources at the Chief Minister's house said he is returning to Patna cutting short his visit to the national capital.Kumar had a telephonic talk with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the calamity.Speaker of Bihar Assembly Uday Narayan Choudhary and Minister Shyam Rajak ran out in the open during a programme at Kurji Holy Hospital in the state capital.Rajak told PTI they were attending a programme for welfare of downtrodden children at the Kurji hospital when they felt the tremor and ran out of the building alongwith the children.Residents in the state capital rushed out of their homes in view of the quake.Director State Meteorological office A K Sen told PTI there was possibility of secondary jerks of the earthquake in the next 48 hours particularly in areas like Darbhanga, Araria, Kisanganj bordering Nepal and an alert has been sounded by the state government in this regard.
1989.txt:“What I have seen is a lot of destruction. So many buildings collapsed and cracked. I saw a number of bodies on the street. People are still trapped in buildings and we don’t know whether they are dead or alive,” he said.
1989.txt:A youth leader from the church, Santosh Kumar Magar, 29, who had been at an ordination of a priest in eastern Nepal as the quake hit, told how houses cracked and crumbled around him as he made his way home to Kathmandu the following day. He said that many people in the remote village of Okhaldhunga were saved because they had been inside the church taking part in the ordination ceremony.
201.txt:In Nepal, buildings were flattened, roads cracked, telephone connectivity snapped and hospitals grappled with a large number of injured who were extricated from the rubble after the country was hit by the temblor at 11.41 a.m. India time. The epicentre of the quake was Nepal's Lamjung district, some 75 km northwest of capital Kathmandu. Over 20 aftershocks were also felt.
2052.txt:"We were told the season here is probably over. Whether we want to or not, we may not get crack at the mountain anyway," he said.
2121.txt:All we can hear is rocks cracking around us, but we can’t see them coming... It’s pretty eerie Tim Bradshaw, British Army Captain
2121.txt:"There are about 30 of us here in Camp 1 and the same again in Camp 2. “No one knows how bad the damage to the Icefall route down is yet, but we have heard that our part of base camp has been flattened.” Captain Tim Bradshaw, leading a British Army team up the mountain, said yesterday’s aftershock felt fairly “violent”. He added: “All we can hear is rocks cracking around us, but we can’t see them coming... It’s pretty eerie.” Alex Gaven tweeted that parts of the base camp look like they have been hit by a “nuclear blast”, with “uncertainty high” for those waiting to descend to safety. India, China and Pakistan have all sent disaster response teams to Nepal and some injured climbers were evacuated by helicopter from base camp yesterday. Among those confirmed dead on Everest was US Google executive Dan Fredinburg, 33. In Kathmandu yesterday hundreds of bodies lined pavements and funeral pyres blazed in the streets. With hundreds still missing, rescuers clawed at debris with their bare hands as they searched for survivors. Some witnesses spoke of buildings, including historic monuments such as the Dharahara Tower “toppling over like a house of cards”. The death toll from the devastating earthquake soared past 3,300 today, with officials saying how much higher it would rise depended largely on the condition of vulnerable mountain villages that rescue workers were still struggling to reach two days after the disaster.
2148.txt:Stephen Groves, who lives in Kathmandu, said he was inspecting a building for cracks shortly after noon on Sunday when the biggest of many aftershocks hit, leading to terrified screams from those nearby.
2150.txt:With people fearing more quakes, tens of thousands spent the day crowding in the streets and the night sleeping in parks or on a golf course. Others camped in open squares lined by cracked buildings and piles of rubble. Helicopter blades thudded periodically overhead.
2170.txt:People gather near the cracks on the road caused by an earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic
21.txt:“There is barely any visibility. Tenzi falls into an ice lake, Arnold too. I step into a glacier crack. Finally we see people.
2205.txt:“Going inside the house is almost impossible (for them) now because the walls are cracked, some parts of the roof came down,” said Pradhan, who noted other villages have been completely destroyed by the disaster.
2217.txt:Cars and motorbikes swerved “wildly” to avoid cracks forming in the roads as people ran in every direction, he said.
2232.txt:“We are afraid to go home, so we are sleeping here,” said Sanvee Ghimire as her 4-year-old daughter, Sabu, rested her weary head on her mother’s lap. “Our house has many cracks, and earthquakes are not stopping.”
2232.txt:The pink and gray marble floor, cracked by the earthquake, was covered with travelers napping against walls and slumping against pillars. They would stir to life momentarily when a baggage carousel squeaked into motion to handle a few parcels.
2277.txt:“We witnessed terrible scenes of destruction — hospitals were evacuated with patients being treated on the ground outside, homes and buildings demolished and some roads cracked wide open,” said Eleanor Trinchera, Caritas Australia program co-ordinator for Nepal, who was an hour outside the capital when the quake struck.
229.txt:Rescue crews were racing to pull survivors from the rubble this evening after a powerful earthquake struck Nepal, even as officials said the death toll had soared over 2,100.The earthquake hit about 50 miles northwest of the capital of Kathmandu just before noon local time, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. The magnitude-7.8 quake toppled temples and triggered an avalanche on Mt. Everest.At least 2,100 people have been killed, the Nepal Interior Ministry told ABC News on Sunday.More than 1,000 others were injured, said the country's finance minister, Ram Sharan Mahat.At least 51 were also killed in India, 17 in Tibet, two in Bangladesh and two Chinese citizens died at the Nepal-China border.Sanjay Karki, country director of Mercy Corps in Nepal, said the ground was still shaking and there were predictions that another strong quake could come."The hospital has been overflooded with casualties," Karki said. "People just emptying their houses and you know, coming to open spaces, with blankets, with the children and all."According to the United Nations, nearly 5 million people were impacted by the earthquake, which was believed to be the worst earthquake in Nepal in more than 80 years.Abigail Hunter, an American traveling in Bhaktapur, saw people pulling others out of buildings and using motorbikes and small trucks as makeshift ambulances. The earthquake reduced many of the temples inside the city about 30 minutes away from the capital to rubble, she said, adding that she saw "lots of people praying to the actual temples" as aftershocks hit the city."The streets are littered with bricks, debris, loads of dust," said Hunter, the sister of an ABC News employee. "[It] was hard to see during the earthquake with all the dust."A magnitude-6.6 aftershock hit about an hour after the initial earthquake and smaller aftershocks followed in the region for hours.Hunter said she watched as families ran to their homes to see if anyone was still inside."Everyone was very scared," she said. "Lots of crying, families trying to find each other."Ayal Weiner-Kaplow, another American visiting Bhaktapur, said water wasn't flowing in the city and most of the remaining food was dried junk food and crackers. He said he wandered around in search for something to eat until he came upon a restaurant."A restaurant owner filled us up -- all of our bottles -- and gave us potatoes, bread, and chicken, refused payment adamantly," he said. "I was actually moved to tears."Weiner-Kaplow said most Nepalis were planning to sleep outside tonight, believing their homes were unsafe if another earthquake struck.The quake also killed 34 in India , six in Tibet , two in Bangladesh , and two on the Nepal-China border.The quake also triggered an avalanche on Mt. Everest that killed at least 10 climbers and guides and injured many more.David Arvan, who was set to climb Mt. Everest, said he immediately realized it was an earthquake, after having felt quakes before living in California."We sought shelter under a concave boulder until it subsided," he told ABC News by email. "Some people were crying in fear during all the rumbling."Azim Afif, a climber from Malaysia, was at a base camp when the quake hit and everything in his tent starting shaking."We go out and we see a big snowstorm coming to us," he said, adding that he saw "white, nothing else than white.""We are very lucky to survive," Afif said.The U.S. government is providing $1 million in assistance, according to the U.S. Embassy in Nepal. Disaster relief teams are en route.Secretary of State John Kerry said in a statement, "To the people in Nepal and the region affected by this tragedy we send our heartfelt sympathies.The United States stands with you during this difficult time."The Pakistan Army also said it is sending relief teams.
2302.txt:Strong aftershocks further hampered aid and caused panic after the Saturday’s midday quake, which measured 7.9 on the Richter scale and flattened buildings, opened cracks in roads and knocked out phone networks.
2302.txt:Strong aftershocks further hampered aid and caused panic after the Saturday’s midday quake, which measured 7.9 on the Richter scale and flattened buildings, opened cracks in roads and knocked out phone networks.
2305.txt:Mr. Adhikari messaged since network connectivity was poor. “NGOs are helping us with food and other things. Most roads that we took are alright except for cracks at few places,” he said. As on Sunday afternoon at least 54 people from Chennai and 17 from Coimbatore are still waiting in Pokhara.
2310.txt:“My family and my house are safe. My parents informed me that our neighbouring house is completely shattered and one of their family members has died during the earthquake. Minor cracks have appeared in our house,” Nirajan said.
2319.txt:“The Boudha Temple is intact at its base, but there is a crack at its top level, and a few smaller stupas that were built later were damaged and fell down,” Tsering Dondrub, a Tibetan resident of Kathmandu, told RFA.
2354.txt:"We witnessed terrible scenes of destruction hospitals were evacuated with patients being treated on the ground outside, homes and buildings demolished and some roads cracked wide open," said Eleanor Trinchera, Caritas Australia programme coordinator for Nepal, who was an hour outside the capital when the quake struck.
2356.txt:People gather near the cracks on the road caused by an earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic
235.txt:As Nepal trembled, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
2394.txt:On Saturday afternoon, as he packed to leave for a 25-km drive out of Kathmandu to the fest, and while his two friends, Sahil Mane and Tara Kaushal, were getting themselves tattooed at a tattoo convention, the first tremors cracked the hotel walls. “The first tremor lasted 30 seconds, it was enough to make us run out,” says Handoo, an IT consultant in Pune.
2403.txt:Kishor Rana’s amateur video contains aerial shots of collapsed buildings, shattered temples and roads riven with enormous cracks and gouges.
2407.txt:“We witnessed terrible scenes of destruction — hospitals were evacuated with patients being treated on the ground outside, homes and buildings demolished and some roads cracked wide open,” said Eleanor Trinchera, Caritas Australia program co-ordinator for Nepal, who was an hour outside the capital when the quake struck.
2410.txt:Dixit explains that access to remote villages and locations from Kathmandu is a big challenge and the infrastructure has collapsed. The main bridge that connects Lathipur to Kathmandu has developed cracks and is dangerous to use. There are no bridges to make the remote areas accessible.
2445.txt:From his hotel room in Beijing, Joshi was eventually able to contact several of his co-workers in Kathmandu. None of his employees was seriously injured in the earthquake, but large cracks appeared in the office walls.
2479.txt:“We were crying and screaming but we didn’t want to run around because there were kids so we just stayed there for a while, it was going for about 2.5 minutes, all of the walls cracked.
2485.txt:First Steps Himalaya Nepalese director Durga Aran was in Nepal a week ago working in the project village helping to build the teacher training centre, in the rural Sindhupachok district. The centre was made from earth-bag building materials. It was reported to be the only building still standing in the district and it only had a crack in it. He was expecting it be used by the villagers to shelter in.
2487.txt:"We [trudged] down and reached Pheriche, which was flat. And village after village was the same. Last night we stayed ... [at] Tengboche. Half the building was filled with cracks and holes. We were sharing with another Kiwi team - Peter Hillary at the helm."
2493.txt:In the ancient temple town of Bhaktapur, east of Kathmandu, many residents were living in tents in a school compound after centuries old buildings collapsed or developed huge cracks. "We have become refugees," said Sarga Dhaoubadel, a management student whose ancestors had built her Bhaktapur family home over 400 years ago.
24.txt:Residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
2524.txt:Designed to send alerts to computers, municipal agencies and others when an earthquake will be powerful enough to crack walls, Japan's system has issued public alerts since 2007. Bullet trains, nuclear reactors, and factories are tied into the system, and shut down automatically when the 2011 Tohoku quake struck, triggering a tsunami that caused a nuclear accident at Fukushima. Cellphone alerts told schoolchildren to take cover.
2536.txt:When the earthquake and avalanche hit, Gaito said the two filmmakers were walking toward base camp to meet Talbot, who was already there. Talbot, she said, suffered cracked ribs and hypothermia in the aftermath. Johansen and Pacyna were not injured, she said.
2552.txt:Pokhara sits 73 kilometres (45 miles) east of the epicentre of Saturday's 7.8-magnitude quake, but when AFP visited Monday the only evidence of a disaster that has killed more than 4,000 people, were a few cracked walls.
2570.txt:"We witnessed terrible scenes of destruction hospitals were evacuated with patients being treated on the ground outside, homes and buildings demolished and some roads cracked wide open," said Eleanor Trinchera, Caritas Australia programme coordinator for Nepal, who was an hour outside the capital when the quake struck.
2571.txt:Both Hinson Dhakal and her husband are not working and are uncertain when they will be called back to their jobs. The office building where she works has been cracked, she said. Her husband is a legal expert for the government, so his work has been put on hold because most of the city’s resources are being taken up with the crisis.
2572.txt:Pokhara sits 73 kilometres (45 miles) east of the epicentre of Saturday's 7.8-magnitude quake, but when AFP visited Monday the only evidence of a disaster that has killed more than 4,000 people, were a few cracked walls.
2575.txt:Altogether 20,000 Indian nationals have been evacuated from Nepal and arrangements were being made to take them to their homes by trains from Raxaul, Bihar, Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Tuesday. The death toll in India from Saturday's quake went up to 75, with Bihar accounting for 58 deaths, Home Secretary LC Goyal said; 450 people were injured in the affected states, which also include Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, and Sikkim.Four days after the devastating earthquake, people stranded in remote villages and towns across Nepal were still waiting for aid and relief to arrive. As the official death toll crossed 5,000, Nepal Prime Minister Sushil Koirala warned that the number of dead could reach 10,000 as information of damage from far-flung places has yet to come in. That would surpass the 8,500 who died in a 1934 earthquake. Releasing $15 million as emergency aid, the UN said 8 million people have been affected, and 1.4 million people are in need of food assistance in Nepal.News agency reports from near the quake epicentre detailed stories of survivors digging through rubble to look for dead bodies of loved ones, and of helicopters flying out the injured to Kathmandu. India has evacuated 170 foreigners from 15 countries from Nepal, foreign ministry spokesperson Vikas Swarup tweeted. They include 71 Spaniards, 33 Polish, 20 Czech, 10 US and eight German nationals.The Indian Navy is readying a 16- member medical team to fly to Nepal to assist the rescue operations. The Indian Army said on Tuesday that it will continue with relief and rescue operation in Nepal till the situation becomes normal. Indian Army Chief General Dalbir Singh, who belongs to the Gorkha Regiment, is also the honorary chief of the Nepalese Army.Major Ritesh Goel, part of the 30- member Indian Army expedition team to Mt Everest, provided first-aid and stabilised nearly 70 climbers after the quake triggered a massive avalanche. He also took care of eight people with serious head injuries for about 14 hours before they were rescued via helicopters. Goel, 28, who is from Bangalore, joined the army six years ago.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has deputed four Union ministers to assess the loss of life and property in quake-hit areas of the country, especially Bihar, and oversee the relief and rescue operations there. While Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan is already deputed at the Indo- Nepal border and in overseeing relief operations in quake-hit areas, the other ministers deputed are Ananth Kumar, Radha Mohan Singh and J P Nadda.Ateam of Archaeological Survey of India will soon be visiting Nepal's Pashupatinath temple, to assess the damage and to begin the much promised restoration work. It was a crack in the stairs leading to one of the ghats at Pashupatinath temple that led Nepal government to ask for India's help to restore this World Heritage Site. In March 2013, ASI first team went to recce the monument.
259.txt:Photos posted on Twitter showed buildings left in rubble, large cracks along roads and worried residents on the streets.
2601.txt:After a second night of severe shocks - leaving five-star hotels cracked and forcing tourists to sleep near pools and in lobbies - Kathmandu residents are refusing to return home for fear of further deadly aftershocks.
2612.txt:Though only one person died in this village due to the Saturday’s earthquake, most stone and brick structures here have developed cracks beyond repair.
2612.txt:We have heard that the Modi sarkar has helped our government. But, we wonder would the help filter down to this Dalit basti of cobblers,” says Nakul Roka, a resident of Sarki village atop hills under Bhaktpura. Though only one person died in this village due to the Saturday’s earthquake, most stone and brick structures here have developed cracks beyond repair.
2612.txt:Stone stairs lead up to hill top from where there are several villages having either collapsed structures or houses beyond repair. The only source of water for these villages is a stream. Women here grow vegetables on slopes, but only for personal use. No one is sleeping inside the cracked homes as aftershocks have not stopped yet. Even in the villages on the foothills, the better-off farmers, who too have suffered heavy damages, are complaining about no help from the government. Tilak Mahat’s family is out living in a tent. His wife Sapna said: “I need to rebuild my house that has cracks at four places. But, no government official has reached us.”
2666.txt:Minor cracks have appeared in our house,â€ Nirajan said. The students are happy that they have been able to speak to their families. â€œThanks to telecom companies such as Airtel, BSNL and Idea, communication is not a problem.
2672.txt:According to the villagers of Dargyeling, all 41 households, except three, were partially damaged or suffered big cracks from the quake.
268.txt:Foreign Secretary S. Jaishankar said the Prime Minister’s instructions were to get cracking on relief and rescue operations. Noting that several Indians, many of them tourists, were stranded in Nepal, Jaishankar said: “There was no count available as our citizens contact the embassy only in case of any need.”
271.txt:As the quake began to intensify, residents ran out of homes and buildings in panic. Clouds of dust began to swirl around them. Large cracks opened up on streets and walls.
2725.txt:Rishi Khanal tells The Associated Press that he had given up all hope of rescue as his lips cracked and his nails turned white. There were dead bodies around him and a terrible smell. But he kept banging on the rubble all around him and eventually this brought a French rescue team that extracted him after an operation lasting many hours.
2731.txt:"We ran through the kitchen and there were things flying everywhere and there were cracks in the building.
2742.txt:"We ran through the kitchen and there were things flying everywhere and there were cracks in the building.
2789.txt:“What I have seen is a lot of destruction. So many buildings collapsed and cracked. I saw a number of bodies on the street. People are still trapped in buildings and we don’t know whether they are dead or alive,” he said.
2789.txt:A youth leader from the church, Santosh Kumar Magar, 29, who had been at an ordination of a priest in eastern Nepal as the quake hit, told how houses cracked and crumbled around him as he made his way home to Kathmandu the following day. He said that many people in the remote village of Okhaldhunga were saved because they had been inside the church taking part in the ordination ceremony.
279.txt:An earthquake measuring 7.9 on the Richter Scale struck west of the ancient Nepali capital of Kathmandu, Pokhara, on Saturday 25 April 2015, at 11:41am Nepal local time. It is the most powerful earthquake to hit the region in 81 years. The death toll from the quake has risen to more than 970 and is rising further, most of them in the Kathmandu Valley. The tremors flattened houses, caused huge craters and cracks in roads in Kathmandu, and sent people running out of their offices and homes. Massive damage to property and infrastructure has been reported. Casualties have also been reported in neighbouring countries.
2808.txt:"There are cracks all over the building," he said. "I'm not sleeping because of the baby - which is a good reason - but I'm also not sleeping because of worries about the building collapsing."
2819.txt:Kishor Rana’s amateur video contains aerial shots of collapsed buildings, shattered temples and roads riven with enormous cracks and gouges.
2829.txt:By and large, it was the older mud-brick and stone structures which went down in the quake. But many of the cement pillar and beam houses, spread haphazardly across the city, have also been damaged, badly in many cases. There are cracks on the walls inside and outside of houses, and chunks of cement have fallen off ceilings and walls. This has given people reason to believe that their homes are not safe, and even a quick run into their toilet or kitchen is made in haste and in utter fear. People are wondering how when all this subsides they will ever be able to go back to sleeping in their beds, on the second and third floors of these unsafe structures.
2829.txt:At night people sleep in rows and huddle when the tremors come, children are sung to, and the elderly are looked after. In the afternoon, people play cards under the tents, drink tea and crack jokes about the ‘nightmare’ that won’t end.
2836.txt:He and his sisters were among the better off. Their home was still standing, with no major cracks. They had planned to return there Tuesday. But Yadav, a physics major, said his sisters were alarmed by aftershocks overnight and refused to go back.
2837.txt:While that building withstood the tremors, the girls' boardinghouse at the school was irreparably damaged. When you have cracks in the windows and doors, it's no longer suitable to live in, he said.
284.txt:KATHMANDU: According to information available, there was widespread devastation in Hanmandhoka area in the old area of Kathmandu.Several casualties were feared as buildings collapsed. At least two people were killed. A 15-year-old girl was killed when the wall of her home collapsed in a village near the border with Nepal. Another girl was killed by a falling statue in a town outside Kathmandu, according to Nepal 's state radio.Authorities said they were still trying to assess the situation.There was rubble where the buildings once stood. In at least one case, there was a long and wide crack on a metalled road.Initial reports indicated that telephone connectivity was snapped in and around Lamjung, which was the epicentre of the quake.There were reports of people with broken limbs being taken to hospital. Kathmandu airport is closed. Flights are reportedly being diverted to India.
2856.txt:People gather near the cracks on the road caused by an earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic
288.txt:In Nepal, buildings were flattened, roads cracked, telephone connectivity snapped and hospitals grappled with a large number of injured who were extricated from the rubble after the country was hit by the temblor at 11.41 a.m. India time.
2912.txt:GHAZIABAD: Nepalese families settled in the city's Trans-Hindon areas are worried about the fate of their relatives back home after they lost contact with them following the massive earthquake on Saturday. Their efforts to reach out to their relatives over phone have received a set back because of inclement weather and a large volume of telephonic traffic.Chhaya Shukla, 24, an executive with a Patparganj-based private company, who lives with her mother in Vaishali Sector 5, told TOI she had last spoken to her father Ram Bilash Shukla three days ago. Her father, who works in Kathmandu, has reportedly shifted from the valley to the plains after the earthquake."The last time I spoke to my father, he said he was going to Sarlahi district in the plains along with a few of my cousins. Our house in Kathmandu has developed cracks and is not fit to live anymore. But I haven't been able to contact him after that. Relatives who stayed back in Kathmandu tell us that my father and other cousins have camped in an open area in Sarlahi. I'm also told there is heavy downpour in the region," said Chhaya.Most Nepalese families settled in Ghaziabad have been making frantic efforts to try and contact the administration to reach out to their relatives. Though many of these families had left Nepal several years ago to settle in India, many of their relatives are still there.Sixty six-year-old Bhakta Sonari, a retired official living with his family in Shipra Riviera apartments in Indirapuram, told TOI that his brother's family had called him from Nepal informing him that though they were alive, some family members had been injured in the temblor. Sonari said his nephew, Suben Gurung, 40, lives with his family in Lalitpur, Kathmandu."Suben's 12-year-old daughter had injured her leg with debris falling on her. He also said the front portion of their house had collapsed, damaging their car too. He occasionally sends a message assuring us that everything is fine. But we are worried. Do they have enough food and ration? Do they have sufficient cash?" said Sonari.The trauma of Nepalese families in Ghaziabad has not escaped the attention of their neighbours. Several residents' groups are already raising funds to be sent to Nepal. "We began collecting funds from the residents Tuesday onwards. So far, we have collected around Rs 35,000. We have set ourselves a target to collect at least Rs 1 lakh in the next two-three days," said Alok Kumar, president, Federation of Apartment Owners' Association of Ghaziabad
2942.txt:Damage: Cyclists pass a huge crack in the road created by the tremors on the outskirts of Kathmandu
2954.txt:In the ancient temple town of Bhaktapur, east of Kathmandu, many residents were living in tents in a school compound after centuries old buildings collapsed or developed huge cracks.
299.txt:Three persons were killed and at least 69, including 43 school children, were injured while several buildings developed cracks in West Bengal after a high intensity earthquake rocked several parts of the country and Nepal today.
3019.txt:Home to one-third of the Himalayan mountains, also known as Asia’s water tower thanks to the rivers that flow down both sides of the range, Nepal has served as a buffer state for India since China gained control of Tibet. For the Chinese, Nepal is part of the “New Silk Road” project that aims to connect Asia with Europe, and a key ally in China’s crackdown on the Tibetan independence movement.
301.txt:A magnitude-6.6 aftershock hit about an hour later, and smaller aftershocks continued to jolt the region for hours. Residents ran out of homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Towers collapsed and clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
3050.txt:"We ran through the kitchen and there were things flying everywhere and there were cracks in the building.
3053.txt:She had been inside her family's four-story villa in Kathmandu when the tremor struck unexpectedly Saturday. And in the life-or-death seconds that followed — when her home swayed at its walls began cracking apart — she and 11 members of her family rushed to get outside.
3072.txt:At the local children’s hospital, dozens of young faces are spread across the cold tile of the ground floor, spread across mats and blankets. They are here because the hospital is scared of another earthquake and has emptied out the second and third floors, where the shaking cracked walls.
3096.txt:Kishor Rana’s video contains aerial shots of collapsed buildings, shattered temples and roads riven with enormous cracks and gouges.
3099.txt:When he arrived, he said, he found that many walls were cracked and immediately began making calls to set up the series of tents that now serve as Birendra’s main triage center.
3114.txt:Pokhara sits 73 kilometres (45 miles) east of the epicentre of Saturday's 7.8-magnitude quake, but when AFP visited Monday the only evidence of a disaster that has killed more than 4,000 people, were a few cracked walls.
3127.txt:As she lay on the floor, Ms Renshaw became frightened of the earth opening up and falling through the cracks.
3135.txt:MUMBAI: Bringing in his 64th birthday on Monday, two days after he witnessed the devastating aftermath of the Nepal earthquake, had a special significance for Kalyan resident Akshay Gajre. Recounting the anxious five hours that he and his wife spent till the Indian armed forces rescued them, Gajre said he was only too thankful to be alive.Gajre and his wife, Bharati (58), had gone to Nepal sightseeing with a tour organizer. There were 26 others in the group. "We were to fly out of Kathmandu on Saturday and were leaving the hotel for the airport when the tremors were first felt around 11.45am. There were many elderly people and all were nervous. Old structures were collapsing. Even RCC structures, like our hotel, started to develop cracks. Our group was shepherded into an open ground, where we took shelter for a few hours. But whenever we tried to head back to the bus (for the airport), there were fresh tremors, and we would be forced to run back to the ground," Garje told TOI.Around 4.30pm, the group finally reached the airport. "There were large crowds waiting to be rescued. The elderly were given priority. "Of the four aircraft that arrived, two filled up quickly. We were escorted into the third," Garje said. The couple reached here on Sunday.
3145.txt:Rishi Khanal tells The Associated Press that he had given up all hope of rescue as his lips cracked and his nails turned white. There were dead bodies around him and a terrible smell. But he kept banging on the rubble all around him and eventually this brought a French rescue team that extracted him after an operation lasting many hours.
3164.txt:“There’s a crack through the building, which is four storeys high, so they don’t dare to go in. My mother-in-law is still in shock, she has hardly spoken since it happened. She is still shaking all the time.
3184.txt:Rishi Khanal tells The Associated Press that he had given up all hope of rescue as his lips cracked and his nails turned white. There were dead bodies around him and a terrible smell. But he kept banging on the rubble all around him and eventually this brought a French rescue team that extracted him after an operation lasting many hours.
3188.txt:Pokhara sits 73 kilometres (45 miles) east of the epicentre of Saturday’s 7.8-magnitude quake, but when AFP visited yesterday the only evidence of a disaster that has killed more than 4,000 people, were a few cracked walls.
3217.txt:MIRIK (DARJEELING): Mirik is no stranger to earthquakes, but three tremors in as many days has shaken up the sleepy hill town like never before. Since the Nepal quake that struck on Saturday afternoon, Mirik has been rocked routinely once every day. The last one on Monday evening turned out to be the most severe, making houses and buildings tremble more vigourously.Thousands in the town have been sleeping in tents at night, out in the open, fearing a repeat of the tremor. Rumours of an impending disaster are flying around even as tourists keep streaming out of hotels and lodges.On Tuesday afternoon, Mirik looked like a ghost town. Most hotels have either been emptied or shut down. Shops opened for a few hours in the afternoon, but most downed shutters by early evening. Residents have been keeping indoors till evening and spending the nights out in the open. SSB forces are ready to swing into action if a calamity strikes.Rakesh Golay, an ex-armyman, has spent the last three nights in an open area adjacent to his house atop a picturesque hill at Nigalay, 5km from Mirik town. His two children, wife and brother jostle under a tarpaulin sheet every night. Golay's neighbor Biren Pradhan hasn't slept since Saturday. Every night he keeps vigil along with a band of youngsters. "Earthquakes can't be predicted. So, the only way is to warn people as fast as we can. But it's extremely tiring and I feel exhausted now after spending sleepless nights," he said. At Okayti Tea Estate, labourers are yet to get over the shock of Monday's tremor. Sangita Sewa, an estate worker, was doing her household chores when she heard a thunderous clatter around 5.30pm. Even before she could look out of her kitchen window, the wall started giving way. "The bricks tumbled out of the wall as if it had been rammed. I cowered under a table and it blew over in a few seconds. The tremors also left numerous cracks all over the house," said Sangita.The district administration hasn't yet been able to reach out to the quake affected zones around Mirik. Some panchayat representatives have only done a sketchy survey of the damage, said villagers. But no real help has reached any village. Hundreds don't have tarpaulin sheets to sleep under.SSB commandant Manoj Kumar, who is leading a team engaged in area assessment, said he had never seen such widespread panic in the hills. "Aftershocks are rarely so severe! But since you can't predict them, we must keep fingers crossed," he said.
325.txt:As Nepal trembled, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
326.txt:A magnitude-6.6 aftershock hit about an hour later, and smaller aftershocks continued to jolt the region for hours. Residents ran out of homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. And clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
3273.txt:Kishor Rana’s amateur video contains aerial shots of collapsed buildings, shattered temples and roads riven with enormous cracks and gouges.
3277.txt:The bishop described the devastating impact of the earthquake on Nepal’s small Catholic community, numbering just 10,000 faithful. “Here in Kathmandu city, many Catholic families have cracks in their houses or major damage … many of our churches, schools, convents and other institutions have developed precarious cracks.”
3278.txt:» 11:00 a.m. (0515 GMT) The first aid shipments have reached Dhading district, close to the epicenter of the devastating earthquake in Nepal. U.N. food agency emergency officer Geoff Pinnock says the distribution in remote quake-hit villages will start Wednesday, but cautions it would take time. "Remember Katrina. It doesn't happen overnight," he said. In Gorkha, the neighboring district to the west, five cargo trucks filled with rice, cooking oil and sugar stood on a grassy field in Majuwa village waiting for a helicopter from Kathmandu to take the supplies to the hardest-hit areas of that district. The World Food Program also expects the delivery of high-energy biscuits, which will be send out to areas without enough water for cooking. A woman becomes emotional during a candle light vigil on Tuesday, April 28, 2015, in front of the Boulder County Courthouse in Boulder, Colo., in honor and memory of the victims of the catastrophic earthquake in Nepal which killed more than 4000 people and left thousands homeless. (Jeremy Papasso/The Daily Camera via AP) NO SALES (Jeremy Papasso/AP) — Katy Daigle, Majuwa, Nepal ——— 10:30 a.m. (0445 GMT) A man pulled from the rubble of a collapsed building in Kathmandu more than three days after the deadly Nepal earthquake says he drank his own urine to survive. Rishi Khanal tells The Associated Press that he had given up all hope of rescue as his lips cracked and his nails turned white. There were dead bodies around him and a terrible smell. But he kept banging on the rubble all around him and eventually this brought a French rescue team that extracted him after an operation lasting many hours. He's now being treated for leg injuries at a hospital in the capital the day after French rescuers found him and brought him out from a collapsed hotel. He had been buried for 82 hours. Advertisement — Rishi Lekhi, Kathmandu, Nepal —— 9:15 a.m. (0330 GMT) While many villages across Nepal are still waiting for rescue and relief teams, life in the capital, Kathmandu, is slowly returning to normal. Municipal workers on Wednesday began cleaning the streets, and the "kalimati bazaar" — the vegetable market — has reopened. Before first light, truckloads of fresh produce were unloaded and customers began to arrive. Shasha Shrestha, 8, holds a candle with the help of her grandmother Suren Shrestha, of Boulder, during a candle light vigil on Tuesday, April 28, 2015, in front of the Boulder County Courthouse in Boulder Colo., in honor and memory of the victims of the catastrophic earthquake in Nepal which killed more than 4000 people and left thousands homeless. (Jeremy Papasso/The Daily Camera via AP) NO SALES (Jeremy Papasso/AP) — Bernat Armangue, Kathmandu, Nepal ——— 9:00 a.m. (0315 GMT) Britain in sending additional 30 medics to treat the injured and heavy lifting equipment to move aid supplies off aircraft and ease congestion at Kathmandu airport. International Development Secretary Justine Greening says the additional support brings the total U.K. response to the earthquake to 15 million pounds ($23 million). ——— 8:00 a.m. (0215 GMT) Thousands of people are lining up at bus stations in Kathmandu where the government is providing free transportation for people hoping to travel to their hometowns and villages. The government has even deployed school buses to supplement the overstretched service. A man sleeps in his store with the shutters open in Kathmandu, Nepal, Tuesday, April 28, 2015. Across central Nepal, including in Kathmandu, the capital, hundreds of thousands of people are still living in the open without clean water or sanitation since Saturday?s massive earthquake, one of the worst to hit the South Asian nation in more than 80 years. (AP Photo/Niranjan Shrestha) (Niranjan Shrestha/AP) Many of the people from other districts who work in the capital have received little news of their families and loved ones since Saturday's magnitude 7.8 temblor, which killed more than 4,700 people and devastated the infrastructure including communication lines. Others are simply scared of staying on so close to the quake's epicenter. "I am hoping to get on a bus, any bus heading out of Kathmandu. I am too scared to be staying in Kathmandu. The house near my rented apartment collapsed. It was horrible. I have not gone indoors in many days. I would rather leave than a live life of fear in Kathmandu," said Raja Gurung, who was leaving for his home in the mountains of west Nepal. In this photo provided by World Vision, a house stands destroyed by Saturday?s earthquake at Paslang village in Gorkha municipality, Nepal, Monday, April 27, 2015. Reports received so far by the government and aid groups suggest that many communities perched on mountainsides are devastated or struggling to cope. Udav Prashad Timalsina, the top official for the Gorkha district, near the epicenter of Saturday's quake, said he was in desperate need of help. (Bishwo Ghimire/World Vision via AP) (Bishwo Ghimire/AP) Suresh Sah, a construction worker from southern Nepal, said that when the quake hit, "the first thing I thought about was my son back in the village. I have been trying to leave but there was no bus available. I just want to hold my family." — Binaj Gurubacharya, Kathmandu, Nepal ——— 8:00 a.m. (0215 GMT) Aid agencies, including World Vision, say they face huge challenges as they respond to the weekend's deadly earthquake. World Vision says the death toll — now at 4,700 — will likely rise as response teams continue to trek to the most remote areas near the epicenter. Nepalese volunteers unload relief material brought in an Indian air force helicopter for victims of Saturday?s earthquake at Trishuli Bazar in Nepal, Monday, April 27, 2015. The death toll from Nepal's earthquake is expected to rise depended largely on the condition of vulnerable mountain villages that rescue workers were still struggling to reach two days after the disaster. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri) (Altaf Qadri/AP) The group says aid workers are hindered by a congested airport in capital Kathmandu, impassable and destroyed roads which have left several remote villages still largely cut off. The group says international aid agencies are also stretched thin as they respond to multiple humanitarian crises across the world including Syria and South Sudan, Phillip Ewert, Operations Director for World Vision in Nepal, says, "we know the clock is ticking for those impacted by the earthquake in some of the most remote areas — aid is a matter of life or death for many at this point." — Binaj Gurubacharya, Kathmandu, Nepal ——— 1:30 a.m. (1945 GMT) Some Virginia-based organizations in the United States have joined the earthquake relief efforts in Nepal. Operation Blessing International says it has brought several portable hand-held water treatment units developed by partner Aqua Research LLC. The device disinfects up to 80 gallons of water using only table salt and a single battery charge. The Christian Broadcasting Network says it has humanitarian workers assisting authorities in Nepal with rescue efforts and other needs. The organization also plans to set up a medical outreach to treat the injured and provide temporary shelters for families whose homes have been destroyed. Saturday's magnitude-7.8 earthquake killed more than 4,700 people and injured over 8,000. . Both Operation Blessing and the Christian Broadcasting Network are based in Virginia Beach ——— 1:20 a.m. (19:35 GMT) Guiding companies say all climbers on the Nepal side of Mount Everest have left the mountain and the climbing season is over following a deadly avalanche that swept through base camp following the huge earthquake in Nepal. Gordon Janow is director of programs at Seattle-based Alpine Ascents International. He says most Everest summits occur between May 10 and 20, so it's too late to think about trying to go back up the mountain before monsoon season. The huge avalanche on Everest that killed 18 and injured dozens happened after Saturday's magnitude-7.8 earthquake killed at least 4,600 people in the Himalayan nation. Every year hundreds of people attempt to scale the world's tallest mountain, with many paying tens of thousands of dollars to guide companies that attempt to get them to the 29,029-foot (8,850-meter) summit. — Martha Bellisle, Seattle ——— 12:05 a.m. (1820 GMT) The U.S. State Department has identified the third of four Americans it had announced were killed in the Nepal earthquake. Besides the two identified yesterday, State Department spokesman Jeff Rathke said Marisa Eve Girawong also was killed. Those announced Monday were Thomas Ely Taplin and Vinh B. Truong. The fourth has not yet been identified. — Wendy Benjaminson, Washington ——— 11:20 p.m. Tuesday (1735 GMT) An official says Nepal's earthquake was picked up as far away as Antarctica and Argentina by seismic stations that monitor the globe for underground nuclear testing. The executive secretary of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization told reporters Tuesday that 70 stations in all detected Saturday's magnitude-7.8 earthquake. Lassina Zerbo says the monitoring stations can pick up the effects of an earthquake, but they are not able to predict one. Zerbo spoke on the sidelines of a United Natinos gathering of world powers to discuss progress toward a world free of nuclear weapons. — Cara Anna, United Nations
3283.txt:After a second night of severe shocks - leaving five-star hotels cracked and forcing tourists to sleep near pools and in lobbies - Kathmandu residents are refusing to return home for fear of further deadly aftershocks.
3308.txt:Zirpe led the Pune-based team, which had conquered Mount Everest in 2012; subsequently, he had taken a team of mountaineers to the Everest base camp. Today, he feels that he and his volunteers are fortunate to be of help. "While in the car, when we learnt that an earthquake of such a huge magnitude had hit this region, the driver just left the vehicle and ran in the middle of the road in sheer panic," narrated Zirpe over acrackling phone line from Kathmandu on Sunday evening. "It was the ugliest scene ever. People have lost their homes and are now completely shattered."
3324.txt:Chaudhary, who was touring the Chitwan area, outside Kathmandu, with his two sons the day the earthquake struck, has since returned to the capital. The building housing the headquarters of his Chaudhary Group, which I had visited some years ago, had to be evacuated since it has developed huge cracks. “We’re struggling to relocate our 500 staff elsewhere, “ said Chaudhary speaking from a makeshift home-office.
3334.txt:It is the area's central place of worship, and soldiers come here to pray, said the Nepal army Gurkha guarding it. Piles of brick lined the paths between the rooms and large cracks defiled the walls. Some areas were in a state of semi-collapse.
333.txt:Tens of thousands spent the night sleeping in parks or on a golf course. Others camped in open squares lined by cracked buildings and piles of rubble.
335.txt:TV broadcasters showed footage of buildings buckled, sidewalks cracked and two major roads collapsed in Sikkim's capital, Gangtok.
3360.txt:“We didn’t see a lot of damage apart from some cracks in buildings.” On Monday night the couple returned to Kathmandu in a van, where it was a different story.
3432.txt:The bishop described the devastating impact of the earthquake on Nepal's small Catholic community numbering just 10,000 faithful. "Here in Kathmandu city, many Catholic families have cracks in their houses or major damage." Bishop Simick stressed the problems of trying to assess the situation on the ground, describing the crippling impact of communications breakdown, impassable roads, no domestic flights and entire communities still cut off.
3432.txt:Reporting on the suffering of Catholic communities, he described how some faithful had lost their lives in a mission station which takes three days by foot to reach. "Yesterday [Monday], one helicopter went to see the place and victims but because of bad weather it could not land and saw nothing. "Many of our churches, schools, convents and other institutions have developed precarious cracks."
3441.txt:"Our house in Bhothahiti cracked during the earthquake," she said. "Everyone was running around and there was nobody to help us, so we came here on Saturday and returned home on Sunday - but then, there was the big aftershock. So we decided to move here," she said.
3469.txt:ReutersNEW YORKNepal’s record of earthquakes dates to at least the 13th century, with significant temblors striking every 75 years or so. And through all that time, in Nepal as in most seismically active areas, there has been one constant: people in the path of destruction have had no idea when the shaking would start.Even after decades of research, “our ability to predict earthquakes is still non-existent,” said seismologist Peggy Hellweg, of the Berkeley Seismological Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley.The area around Kathmandu suffered damaging quakes in 1934 and 1988, but when disaster experts met in Nepal’s capital earlier this month, all they could forecast was that the next one would probably come in the next couple of decades. Policy makers have, in at least one case, reacted harshly to seismologists’ limited foresight. In 2012, an Italian court found six scientists guilty of manslaughter because they failed to predict and warn residents in advance of the 2009 L’Aquila earthquake, which was preceded by months of minor rumblings and killed just over 300 people. The verdict was overturned in 2014.But if predictions, meaning alerts days or weeks ahead, are still a distant goal, progress has been made on early warnings of earthquakes, giving precious seconds that can save lives. But the world is divided into haves and have-nots.Earthquake early-warning systems have been deployed in only a handful of the world’s seismic hot zones, Hellweg said. They can warn of quakes as much as a few minutes before they strike. Countries with such systems include Mexico, Japan, and the United States, where the most advanced system is California’s state-run ShakeAlert. They consist of stations housing seismometers that can detect P waves, non-destructive waves produced by an earthquake, that travel through Earth’s crust faster than S waves, the ones that shake the ground. Once P waves reach a seismic station, the information is transmitted via phone lines, modems or satellite to labs. There, computers deploy advanced algorithms to calculate the origin and magnitude of the earthquake that generated the waves. ShakeAlert gave the San Francisco Bay Area five to 10 seconds notice when the 2014 Napa earthquake hit.“If Nepal had a seismic network that operated as the seismic stations in Northern California did in the Napa quake,” Hellweg said, “people in Kathmandu would probably have had 15 to 20 seconds warning.” That could have been enough to take cover under tables or even escape some collapsing buildings. The systems do not come cheap. Capital investment costs for an early warning system for the entire west coast of the United States would total $38.3 million, the US Geological Survey (USGS) estimated last year, with annual maintenance and operations totalling $16.1 million.Since 2012, Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) in the San Francisco area has been tied into ShakeAlert. A signal from the earthquake warning system automatically decelerates BART trains before a quake of magnitude 4 (if local) or 5 (if distant) arrives, averting potentially disastrous derailments.The system is not perfect, however. If the epicentre of a quake were actually in the San Francisco Bay Area, BART would have no warning: the P and S waves arrive almost simultaneously.Japan’s early-warning system, operated by the Meteorological Agency, is more extensive.Designed to send alerts to computers, municipal agencies and others when an earthquake will be powerful enough to crack walls, Japan’s system has issued public alerts since 2007. Bullet trains, nuclear reactors, and factories are tied into the system, and shut down automatically when the 2011 Tohoku quake struck, triggering a tsunami that caused a nuclear accident at Fukushima. Cellphone alerts told schoolchildren to take cover.The system saved “thousands of lives,” Berkeley seismologist Richard Allen told a recent scientific conference.
3479.txt:His family abandoned their home in Kathmandu after the walls cracked in the violence of Saturday’s 7.8-magnitude quake. Two of Dasel’s relatives are dead, one a six-year-old child. They are among more than 5,000 people reported dead so far.
3480.txt:His family abandoned their home in Kathmandu after the walls cracked in the violence of Saturday’s 7.8-magnitude quake. Two of Dasel’s relatives are dead, one a six-year-old child. They are among more than 5,000 people reported dead so far.
3486.txt:Pokhara sits 73 km (45 miles) east of the epicentre of Saturday’s 7.8-magnitude quake, but when AFP visited Monday the only evidence of a disaster that has killed more than 4,000 people, were a few cracked walls.
3496.txt:People gather near the cracks on the road caused by an earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic
3500.txt:Pokhara sits 73 kilometres (45 miles) east of the epicentre of Saturday’s 7.8-magnitude quake, but when AFP visited yesterday the only evidence of a disaster that has killed more than 4,000 people, were a few cracked walls.
3501.txt:“I had some hope, but by yesterday I’d given up,” Rishi Khanal told The Associated Press from his hospital bed Wednesday. “My nails went all white and my lips cracked … I was sure no one was coming for me. I was certain I was going to die.”
350.txt:Residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
352.txt:Newer sections of Kathmandu suffered cracked walls and buckled roadways, along with downed power lines. But buildings in the older part of the city — some up to 500 years old — partially or completely collapsed.
3534.txt:After a second night of severe shocks - leaving five-star hotels cracked and forcing tourists to sleep near pools and in lobbies - Kathmandu residents are refusing to return home for fear of further deadly aftershocks.
3536.txt:After a second night of severe shocks - leaving five-star hotels cracked and forcing tourists to sleep near pools and in lobbies - Kathmandu residents are refusing to return home for fear of further deadly aftershocks.
3568.txt:They're sending their crack debris clearing teams.
3606.txt:Some families like Chhetri's and Pokhrel's are living out of tents. The houses aren't safe to be in due to cracks left behind by the earthquake.
360.txt:A magnitude-6.6 aftershock hit about an hour later, and smaller aftershocks continued to jolt the region for hours. Residents ran out of homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. And clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
3630.txt:His mother's home was cracked in the quake, and his wife's cousin lost his home and has been struggling to find food, in the Parbat district in western Nepal.
3634.txt:After a second night of severe shocks - leaving five-star hotels cracked and forcing tourists to sleep near pools and in lobbies - Kathmandu residents are refusing to return home for fear of further deadly aftershocks.
3653.txt:Home to one-third of the Himalayan mountains, also known as Asia’s water tower thanks to the rivers that flow down both sides of the range, Nepal has served as a buffer state for India since China gained control of Tibet. For the Chinese, Nepal is part of the “New Silk Road” project that aims to connect Asia with Europe, and a key ally in China’s crackdown on the Tibetan independence movement.
3668.txt:'My nails went all white and my lips cracked... I was sure no one was coming for me. I was certain I was going to die.'
370.txt:All across the country, residents ran out of homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. And clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
371.txt:In Bangladesh, buildings across the old part of the capital Dhaka cracked from the impact, and several workers in a garment factory were hurt as they rushed to escape.
3723.txt:But like others in the village, she has no home. Some houses, like hers, collapsed completely. Others lost walls; still others are cracked so badly they are uninhabitable. Virtually every house in Syadul will need to be rebuilt, leaving people scarcely able to think about farming their current crops of wheat, maize and vegetables.
3732.txt:“I had some hope, but by yesterday I’d given up,” Rishi Khanal told The Associated Press from his hospital bed Wednesday. “My nails went all white and my lips cracked … I was sure no one was coming for me. I was certain I was going to die.”
3738.txt:Rishi Khanal tells The Associated Press that he had given up all hope of rescue as his lips cracked and his nails turned white. There were dead bodies around him and a terrible smell. But he kept banging on the rubble all around him and eventually this brought a French rescue team that extracted him after an operation lasting many hours.
375.txt:In Bangladesh, buildings across the old part of the capital Dhaka cracked from the impact, and several workers in a garment factory were hurt as they rushed to escape.
3788.txt:A group from East Champaran could get only a small pick-up van to move out of Kathmandu. They have covered the open van with plastic sheets to escape winds and rains. “We didn’t get any help. We have hired this pick-up van for Rs 15,000. There is no point living in Kathmandu where several buildings have cracked. I will look for a job in Bihar now,” said Ramesh Jha, who works at a watch unit in Kathmandu.
3813.txt:"I had some hope, but by yesterday I'd given up," Rishi Khanal told The Associated Press from his hospital bed Wednesday. "My nails went all white and my lips cracked ... I was sure no one was coming for me. I was certain I was going to die."
3820.txt:“I had some hope but by yesterday I’d given up. My nails went all white and my lips cracked … I was sure no one was coming for me. I was certain I was going to die,” he said from his hospital bed on Wednesday.
3820.txt:Whole communities got behind the British technical experts, ensuring that no-one took a step or uttered a word as microphones so sensitive they can detect a heartbeat were threaded into cracks in crumpled ruins.
3834.txt:“I had some hope but by yesterday I’d given up. My nails went all white and my lips cracked … I was sure no one was coming for me. I was certain I was going to die,” he told The Associated Press from his hospital bed on Wednesday.
3864.txt:Kishor Rana’s video contains aerial shots of collapsed buildings, shattered temples and roads riven with enormous cracks and gouges.
3887.txt:The bothers' parents survived the quakes, but the walls in their home were severely cracked, though the roof did not collapse. Jeevan Ghimire is pastor of Kathmandu Bible Baptist Church. He and his wife Usha Ghimire operate an orphanage that currently houses 12 children. All survived the earthquakes.
388.txt:The quake pulled down buildings, temples and towers, felled trees and electric posts and left yawning cracks on roads across Nepal, specially in Kathmandu, the capital.
3891.txt:As she lay on the floor, Ms Renshaw became frightened of the earth opening up and falling through the cracks.
38.txt:As Nepal trembled, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
3901.txt:"I had some hope but by yesterday I'd given up. My nails went all white and my lips cracked ... I was sure no one was coming for me. I was certain I was going to die," he told the Associated Press from his hospital bed.
3908.txt:"We ran through the kitchen and there were things flying everywhere and there were cracks in the building.
391.txt:A magnitude-6.6 aftershock hit about an hour later, and smaller aftershocks continued to jolt the region for hours. Residents ran out of homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. And clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
3934.txt:On Kathmandu's Basantapur Durbar Square on Tuesday, a heavy wooden beam was slipping down what was left of the Maju Dega Temple.Members of a volunteer search-and-rescue team were clambering up and down the temple's base, using the beam as a stepladder and occasionally sending a shower of bricks crashing onto it. It would end up on a pile of timber, in a square traversed by people, exposed to the rain.If you worked as an antiquities dealer, you would note certain things about the beam: It was intricately carved with the image of two deities and possibly dated to the 17th century - the kind of piece that could sell for many thousands of dollars at an auction house in the West.In the three days since a magnitude 7.8 earthquake struck Nepal, the death toll has mounted so quickly, to more than 5,000, that most concerns other than the health and safety of its people have been put aside. Hope for finding survivors was waning, and tens of thousands of people are living in tents despite heavy rains. Reserves of clean water are running low.But in the meantime, in many places, the detritus of centuries-old temples and palaces has been left unguarded, diminishing chances to eventually rebuild one of the world's largest clusters of cultural heritage sites. Pedestrians, possibly for sentimental value, are walking away with bricks from the 19th-century Dharahara Tower, which crashed to the earth Saturday, trapping at least 40 people inside.On Monday, after a citizen called an official in Nepal's Department of Archaeology to report having thwarted an attempt to steal a bronze bell from the roof of a temple here in the capital, the authorities took some first steps to guard against looting. A notice was printed in a local newspaper Tuesday, warning that anyone taking artifacts would be punished.But there was also a sense of helplessness at the magnitude of the calamity that has befallen the Kathmandu Valley, a place meticulously documented by preservationists and named a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1979."Nobody is really able to do this - the government not, UNESCO not, so I think all have to work together," said Christian Manhart, the head of UNESCO's office in Kathmandu. "There are thousands of sites, and we cannot put a policeman or military on each of the sites 24 hours a day. They are needed for other purposes. So it's impossible, as you can imagine."UNESCO's top official, Irina Bokova, said in an interview Monday that she was unaware of any natural disaster in modern times that had damaged so much cultural heritage.A dull, deep sadness hung around the valley's most celebrated neighborhoods this week. Two days after the earthquake, a steep, narrow street in Bhaktapur, an ancient pink-brick city several miles from Kathmandu, had been so completely abandoned by its residents that a visitor could hear no sound except pigeons cooing.A glance up explained why: cracks zigzagged up the faces of the brick houses, tall, elegant structures with carved windows, some of which had toppled inward Saturday, crushing the people inside. Occasionally Tuesday, residents would dash in to grab bags of rice or other supplies, but their fear was still so intense that they would not stop to talk.Sitting on a curb on Yalachhen Street, in no hurry to go anywhere, was Kishor Rajbhandari, who sat gazing at the house that had belonged to his family for three generations."This is my house," he said. "It's almost gone. Outside it looks all right, but inside, there are cracks in every corner. If the next 6.5 comes, it goes out."The city of Kathmandu was built at the intersection of two trade routes linking China and India, and its architectural heritage reflects overlapping influences: miniature Buddhist votive structures from the seventh century, decorated with fine brass and wood carvings; tiered temples made of fired red bricks; monasteries, religious complexes, palaces, courtyards and clusters of tile-roofed homes.The destruction has been overwhelming. UNESCO has said temple complexes in Kathmandu, Bhaktapur and Patan are almost destroyed. At Basantapur Durbar Square on Tuesday, teams of volunteers were shoveling debris off the foundations of two temples that had collapsed Saturday; ambulances arrived to remove two bodies the volunteers found. A few police officers stood in the square but made no attempt to supervise the effort."There is no organization whatsoever," said Kaitlin Bull, 22, a tourist from Canada who spent four hours helping clear rubble off Maju Dega. "It's just a free-for-all."In the hurry to remove the rubble, carved beams and struts had ended up in piles of scrap wood, although a few particularly beautiful carvings - like one pink-stained piece showing women frolicking acrobatically below two smiling gods - had been set aside.Anil Adhikari, a police inspector at a station in the square, said that the only arrests for looting in the square were of eight teenagers who had planned to sell wood carvings at an antiques market. Outside the police station, Adhikari had collected about a dozen statues of gods and goddesses.Officials said that the issue of looting had taken on more urgency in the past several days, but each seemed to hold another agency responsible for securing the sites.Adhikari said his police station had informed officials from the government's Archaeology Department of the treasures in the rubble, but the department's officials had not come.Chandra Mani Adhikari, a member of the government's national planning commission, said he had instructed the department to "take action to preserve all these things quickly."The director general of the Archaeology Department, Bhesh Narayan Dahal, for his part, said he had visited the city's police and district officer and "requested him to please provide more and more security in that area."He had also given orders for the warning against looting to be printed and broadcast and told staff members to visit heritage sites and lock up artifacts in a museum for safekeeping."I am too much worried," he said. "How can I tell you? I am too much worried. How will we save our heritage?"But that was a subordinate worry on Tuesday in Basantapur Durbar Square, where volunteers were intent on removing the last bodies from the dusty rubble. Shortly after noon, they discovered one, a Nepalese man who was found on his chest, apparently crushed when he tried to run down the temple stairs.Thomas Bell, a journalist and the author of "Kathmandu," a 2014 book about the city, was watching the volunteers toss down carved beams, which landed atop each other in a cloud of dust. The beams, he said, should be immediately cataloged, stored and protected from further damage.In Nepal, "people don't necessarily place a great deal of value on a piece of wood just because it's old," he said. "But if you were to restore the temple, you would want it back."
3942.txt:The brothers' parents survived the quakes, but the walls in their home were severely cracked, though the roof did not collapse. Jeevan Ghimire is pastor of Kathmandu Bible Baptist Church. He and his wife Usha Ghimire operate an orphanage that currently houses 12 children. All survived the earthquakes.
3947.txt:"There are cracks at our rented accommodation. We are afraid to go back," Meera Tamang, 50, told IANS.
3979.txt:Manisha's tent was housing her whole family and neighbors."My house building was not totally damaged in the quake, but the cracks caused by the tremor is scaring,"said Manisha.
399.txt:She told me: "My friend and I were waiting in the corridor of the airport leading to the tarmac when we felt the earth rumbling beneath our feet. We could hear cracks forming in the building, followed by people screaming and running out onto the tarmac.
4004.txt:"Our house suffered a little disaster," Dhakal said. "Though it's not collapsed totally, there are some cracks in the building so there's no way they can stay in the houses."
400.txt:In Nepal, buildings were flattened, roads cracked, telephone connectivity snapped and hospitals grappled with a large number of injured who were extricated from the rubble after the country was hit by the temblor at 11.41 a.m. India time. The epicentre of the quake was Nepal’s Lamjung district, some 75 km northwest of capital Kathmandu. Over 20 aftershocks were also felt.
400.txt:Cracks in kathmandu road.
400.txt:Cracks in Kathmandu highrise.
401.txt:"The Polit Bureau expresses deep sorrow at the devastating impact of the earthquake in Nepal. People of India stand in solidarity with Nepalese people in this time of calamity. The CPI(M) calls upon Central government to immediately provide all necessary assistance to Nepal."Many parts of India have also been affected by the quake. Reports have come in of scores of people having died in Bihar, UP and West Bengal and damage in many other states. The Government must rush help to all the affected areas in India," the party said in a statement.A strong earthquake measuring 7.9 on the Richter scale shook Nepal and several parts of India, including the national capital, leaving a trail of devastation in the Himalayan nation.The quake, at 11:41 am IST, had its epicentre in Nepal and flattened houses, created huge craters and cracks on roads in Kathmandu.
4025.txt:Dutta has been sleeping in his home, which has some cracks in the wall, for two nights, but the dozens of small aftershocks that he has felt since Saturday's huge quake make him uneasy. "I am worried about whether they will continue for a long time or whether it will calm down."
4026.txt:A man rides a motorcycle on a cracked road in Sindhupalchok, northeast Nepal, April 29, 2015. The death toll from a powerful earthquake in Nepal climbed to 5,844, said the country's Ministry of Home affairs in its latest update on Thursday. (Xinhua/Xu Yanyan)
4031.txt:Fruit vendors were back on the streets selling produce, and the mobile phone shops were opening again, a sign that things were returning to normal. But widespread fear about the “cracks”, and whether the earthquake damage means your house could fall on your head at any moment, lingers like a curse.
4031.txt:“I am from a village, and working here in Kathmandu for the last five years. All my family is safe, but our house is cracked. There has been great help from outside. And the army have been a great help. We need blankets. We get a cup of tea and six biscuits for breakfast. And one bottle of mineral water,” he said.
4034.txt:"I had some hope, but by yesterday I'd given up," Rishi Khanal told The Associated Press from his hospital bed Wednesday. "My nails went all white and my lips cracked ... I was sure no one was coming for me. I was certain I was going to die."
409.txt:Residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
4104.txt:A: Staying abroad does not mean being able to stay outside the law. The Chinese government is determined to crack down on corruption. No matter where the corrupts flee, the Chinese side will bring them to justice. Absconders like Cheng Muyang are bound to receive due punishment.
413.txt:"Our compound wall has collapsed and the house has developed cracks," he said.
4145.txt:'My nails went all white and my lips cracked... I was sure no one was coming for me. I was certain I was going to die.'
4152.txt:"We hid under a table while the building was shaking very violently and cracking," he said.
4159.txt:Dutta has been sleeping in his home, which has some cracks in the wall, for two nights, but the dozens of small aftershocks that he has felt since Saturday's huge quake make him uneasy. "I am worried about whether they will continue for a long time or whether it will calm down."
4170.txt:“We looked up at each other and realised what was happening. Then a thunderous roar of what could have been a landslide or avalanche or simply the mountain breaking and shifting sounded. The trees were shaking and cracking.
4173.txt:“Our doctors worked late into the night and resumed work at the crack of dawn today,” it was posted on the Facebook page of the DeSuung, which was in contact with the medical team via satellite phones.
4232.txt:A 2006 coup by the Thai army unleashed years of protests that culminated in a bloody military crackdown four years later. But it clawed back some popularity through its relief efforts after a catastrophic 2011 flood.
423.txt:A powerful earthquake struck Nepal and sent tremors through northern India on April 25, killing hundreds of people, toppling an historic 19th-century tower in the capital Kathmandu and touching off a deadly avalanche on Mount Everest.There were reports of devastation in outlying, isolated mountainous areas after the quake struck with a magnitude of 7.9, the worst in 81 years, with its epicenter 80 kilometers east of Nepal's second largest city, Pokhara.A collapse in communications hampered relief efforts, raising fears of a humanitarian disaster across the impoverished Himalayan nation of 28 million people.A home ministry official told Reuters said the death toll had reached 758 in Nepal. A further 34 fatalities were reported in northern India and one in Bangladesh. The quake was shallow in depth, intensifying its destructive force.Indian tourist Devyani Pant was in a Kathmandu coffee shop with friends when "suddenly the tables started trembling and paintings on the wall fell on the ground."I screamed and rushed outside," she told Reuters by telephone from the capital, where at least 181 people died."We are now collecting bodies and rushing the injured to the ambulance. We are being forced to pile several bodies one above the other to fit them in."A tourism official said at least 17 people were killed when an avalanche unleashed by the earthquake swept through the Everest Base Camp for climbers of the world's highest mountain.Choti Sherpa, who works at the Everest Summiteers Association, was unable to call her family and colleagues on the mountain. "Everyone is trying to contact each other, but we can't," she said. "We are all very worried."Around 300,000 foreign tourists were estimated to be in Nepal for the spring trekking and climbing season, and officials were overwhelmed by calls from concerned friends and relatives."We are facing a tremendous crisis here and it is hard to even assess what the death toll and the extent of damage could be," said Mohan Krishna Sapkota, a second tourism official."The trekkers are scattered all around the base camp and some had even trekked further up. It is almost impossible to get in touch with anyone."A landlocked nation sandwiched between India and China, popular with adventure tourists, Nepal has had its share of natural disasters. Its worst earthquake in 1934 killed more than 8,500 people.Political instability weakens the ability of the government to handle a crisis - Nepal has still not upgraded its weather forecasting despite being surprised by unseasonal blizzards last autumn that killed 32 in the Annapurna massif.In 2001, Nepal burst into global headlines when then-Crown Prince Dipendra gunned down 10 members of his family, including his father, King Birendra Shah, before killing himself.The revered Dharara Tower collapsed in Kathmandu when the quake erupted shortly before noon local time. A policeman said that up to 200 people had been trapped in the structure.Built in 1832 for the queen of Nepal, the tower was a 60-meter-high landmark that had been open to visitors for the last 10 years and had a viewing balcony.A jagged stump just 10 meters high was all that was left of the lighthouse-like structure. Several bodies were extracted from the ruins.At the main hospital in Kathmandu, people with broken limbs and arms were being rushed in for treatment. Crowds and volunteers formed human chains to clear the way for ambulances to bring in the injured.Kathmandu is home to ancient, wooden Hindu temples. Photographs posted online showed buildings reduced to rubble, with large cracks along roads and residents sitting in the street holding babies."I can see three bodies of monks trapped in a debris of a collapsed building near a monastery," said Pant, the Indian tourist. "We are trying to pull the bodies out and look for anyone who is trapped."The Everest avalanches, first reported by climbers, raised fears for those on the world's loftiest peak a year after a massive snow slide caused the deadliest incident yet there.The first rescue plane carrying people injured in an avalanche at the Everest base camp arrived in Kathmandu on April 26 carrying 15 climbers who survived the collapse triggered by Nepal's worst earthquake in 81 years.Romanian climber Alex Gavan said on Twitter that there had been a "huge avalanche" and "many, many" people were up on the mountain. "Running for life from my tent," Gavan said. "Everest base camp huge earthquake then huge avalanche."Another climber, Daniel Mazur, said Everest base camp had been "severely damaged" and his team was trapped."Please pray for everyone," he said on his Twitter page.An avalanche in April 2014 just above the base camp on Mount Everest killed 16 Nepali guides.The tremors on April 25 were felt as far away as New Delhi and other northern cities in India, with reports that they had lasted up to a minute.The U.S. Geological Survey said the quake, initially measured at 7.7 but upgraded to 7.9 magnitude, struck 80 kilometers east of Pokhara. It was only 2 kilometers deep.Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired an emergency meeting and dispatched a military air transporter with three tons of supplies and a 40-member disaster response team to Nepal. Three more planes were to follow later on Saturday, carrying a mobile hospital and further relief teams.
4242.txt:Taking in tenants Kandu Sherpa Kandu Sherpa's husband was not home in the Himalayan village of Nachipomdok the day of the earthquake, but she sure was. She ran out of the house and when the earth stopped moving, she saw cracks traveling through the walls. Another house the couple owns and rents out, further up the mountain, was flattened. "Our tenants are sleeping here with us. In tents," her husband, Dazgelzen, says. He speaks in Nepalese but when asked if he expected the government to come to their aid, he responds in broken English: "I don't know." CNN's Moni Basu
4242.txt:Safe kids, scattered dreams Pushpa Basnet The parents are in prison. Now the children are sleeping on the ground, inside a greenhouse. Pushpa Basnet provides a home and education for 45 kids whose parents are incarcerated. But the quake cracked the walls at her Early Childhood Development Center, and the staff fears it might fall down. She and the older children created a shelter using the frame of a greenhouse, taping plastic around the sides to protect themselves. "It's really cold in the middle of the night; there are lots of fox in the field," Basnet said. "We are really scared." They also don't have much water or food. But Basnet says she is trying to stay positive. "I think for the time being, whatever we have, we should be happy, you know? Because at least we have our life," she said. "(My kids) all are safe. That's the most important thing for me." Basnet's "Butterfly Home" -- the permanent residence she was building for the children -- also suffered extensive damage. Basnet had hoped to have it open by October. She had purchased the land for the home with prize money she received as CNN's 2012 Hero of the Year. "When the earthquake hit that land, all my dreams were scattered," she said. "I have to restart again." CNN's Sumnima Udas, Kathleen Toner and Christie O'Reilly
4243.txt:Dutta has been sleeping in his home, which has some cracks in the wall, for two nights, but the dozens of small aftershocks that he has felt since Saturday's huge quake make him uneasy. "I am worried about whether they will continue for a long time or whether it will calm down."
4247.txt:"I had some hope but by yesterday I'd given up. My nails went all white and my lips cracked ... I was sure no one was coming for me. I was certain I was going to die."
4247.txt:Rishi Khanal tells The Associated Press that he had given up all hope of rescue as his lips cracked and his nails turned white.
4262.txt:"I dropped to my knees in the doorway and watched large cracks appear in the walls around me," he said.
426.txt:In Mathura, the quake that lasted for over a minute, caused cracks in the old building which housed the office of Senior Superintendent of Police forcing the officials to rush out. Also, cracks were visible on the 100-year-old building of the municipal council of the district.
426.txt:Reports said that buildings developed cracks in several districts of the state.
4273.txt:Those who arrived were British expatriates Anne Edmonson, Gulf for Good Charity Governor; Paul Cracknell, a landscape architect; Martin Hope, a technical director; Lizzy Pudner, a director; Taran Vernon, a registrar; and Indian expatriates Varun Mohan, a student, and Shikha Kanojia, an external auditor.
428.txt:As the quake began to intensify, residents ran out of homes and buildings in panic. Clouds of dust began to swirl around them. Large cracks opened up on streets and walls.
4298.txt:Fruit vendors were back on the streets selling produce, and the mobile phone shops were opening again, a sign that things were returning to normal. But widespread fear about the “cracks”, and whether the earthquake damage means your house could fall on your head at any moment, lingers like a curse.
4298.txt:“I am from a village, and working here in Kathmandu for the last five years. All my family is safe, but our house is cracked. There has been great help from outside. And the army have been a great help. We need blankets. We get a cup of tea and six biscuits for breakfast. And one bottle of mineral water,” he said.
429.txt:When the earth first shook, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls.
430.txt:In Dhaka, residents of high-rise buildings were seen running down in panic as apartments swung. Two buildings were reported to develop cracks and tilt at the capital Dhaka’s Banani and Banghsal.
431.txt:The quake was more destructive for being shallow, toppling buildings and opening gaping cracks in roads.
4320.txt:"We hid under a table while the building was shaking very violently and cracking and we were very lucky to escape."
4325.txt:The brick homes had gaping holes, some collapsed entirely. Corrugated tin roofs hung at precarious angles. In one house, an entire wall was shorn away, revealing an unmade bed and a pile of clothes. Even the houses made of cement had giant cracks, wide enough to stick your arm through.
4329.txt:AS the world woke up on Sunday to horrific images of death and destruction in Nepal, Kiran Joshi sat in a hotel room in Beijing feeling sick to his stomach. Joshi had just been in Kathmandu 12 hours earlier. Now he watched his hometown burn on the TV news.But there was another reason Joshi was so sickened by the scenes from Kathmandu. He had seen them all before — in his own movie."We thought we were exaggerating the damage when we made our documentary, but now I watch the news and the devastation is even worse," Joshi told The Washington Post on Monday. "It's chilling."Joshi is a Hollywood insider turned Nepalese innovator. He helped create classics including "Beauty and the Beast" and "The Lion King" during an 18-year career with Walt Disney, but left in 2008 to found Nepal's first special effects and animation studio.Now, however, he has the disturbing distinction of having foreshadowed his own hometown's collapse on film.Joshi was born in Kathmandu: a computer nerd who struggled to get the latest equipment in Nepal. He left the country when he was 19 to study in the U.S. and then joined Disney, where he helped program complex animations sequences in "Aladdin," "The Hunchback of Notre Dame" and "Atlantis."But even though he married and had a kid in the United States, Joshi felt pulled back to Nepal."The year 2007 was the turning point in his life," according to a 2010 profile. "When he had come to Nepal for the funeral of a relative, his friend Sanjeev Rajbhandari suggested opening a studio in Nepal. He then spent three weeks in small animation boutiques and was impressed to see the portfolios of skilled and passionate young artists. He met a 19-year-old boy who showed his portfolio and said that his passion was animation but due to pressure from his parents, he had been studying management. He asked Kiran for help, so realizing the level of this boy's passion, he decided it was time to open an animation studio in Nepal."In 2008, he founded Incessant Rain Animation Studios, the first of its kind in Kathmandu. Initially, the company focused on animating films for Hollywood.But in 2010, when a 7.0 magnitude earthquake leveled Port-au-Prince, Haiti, Joshi realized there was important work to be done about Nepal, which sits on a seismic fault line.The United Nations, Red Cross and other development agencies poured money and resources into Nepal in order to raise awareness about disaster preparation and rescue procedures. But Joshi didn't think the message was reaching everyone."There was a lot of preparation done in terms of educating people at a higher level," he said, "but due to circumstances in Nepal, which is very poor, it hasn't reached everybody."So Joshi teamed with the Red Cross and the American embassy to produce a series of animated public service announcements. In the videos, a heroic red panda — a local animal — teaches people how to prepare for an earthquake as well as what to do during and after a disaster."The red panda is like our version of Smokey the Bear," Joshi explained. "We're trying to teach people about safety."In January, Joshi debuted a different project: a documentary called "Moving Mountains." The film featured interviews with the few remaining survivors from Nepal's last devastating earthquake, an 8.2 magnitude tremor on Jan. 15, 1934. More than 10,000 people died in Nepal — mostly in Kathmandu — with nearly as many perishing across the border in Bihar, India.But Joshi wanted to do more than remind the Nepalese of the previous earthquake. He wanted to stir them to take action to prevent another disaster. ("Their past could become our future" is the movie's tagline.) So he enlisted his animators in creating dramatic scenes of the potential ruin another powerful earthquake could cause modern-day Kathmandu."Basically, through animation we destroyed many of Kathmandu's most famous monuments, including the Dharahara Tower, our number one monument," he said. "In our documentary we leveled that off. We were trying to say, 'This is how bad the devastation could be.' "Joshi said he and his team debated long and hard about just how graphic to make the scenes in the movie."That was the biggest thing we discussed: to what level do we portray those visuals?" he said. "On one level you don't want people to panic, but on another level you want to wake them up. If you show just a few houses getting knocked down, people won't care unless it is their house. But if you are showing some significant landmarks of the country, it will send a very strong message."Joshi's digitally animated film didn't prepare him for the destruction that Kathmandu suffered on Sunday, however."That was the most devastating part," he said. "When I saw the news and I saw that the tower was completely knocked off."From his hotel room in Beijing, Joshi eventually contacted several of his co-workers in Kathmandu. None of his employees was seriously injured in the earthquake, but large cracks appeared in the office walls."We were very lucky," he said. "One artist comes from the epicenter area. He said his whole village is pretty much leveled off."As of early Monday morning, the death toll stood at roughly 3,800. But Joshi said there are other costs."It's very sad," Joshi added. "I think Nepal and Kathmandu will never be what they were before. Besides losing so many lives, lots of our culture is in our buildings and monuments. They are completely damaged. What I love about Nepal is its rich culture. Everyone of those temples and monuments has a history why they were built. I know they will build back the city, but some of the charm about these old, antique buildings will be gone."From 1996 until 2006, Nepal was gripped by conflicts between government forces and Maoist insurgents. Since then, political squabbling has often shut down the government and stymied progress, Joshi said. He hoped the solidarity he had seen since the earthquake would push the poor, Himalayan country past such problems."The political structure is really messed up, he said. "The parties are always fighting and trying to create ethnic divides, but dividing the country along ethnic lines is not good for the country."Now we are coming together and rebuilding our lives after the earthquake," Joshi said. "I hope politicians realize the value of being one nation. I hope that something good comes out of this tragedy and Nepal rebuilds itself, not just from an infrastructure standpoint but also pulling itself together as a people."Joshi said he couldn't be sure that his public service announcements or even his apocalyptic movie helped save anyone's life in Nepal. But he felt that his movies might be able to play a role in rebuilding Kathmandu by reminding people of what has been lost."The good thing about animation is that whatever you have in your mind you can create," he said. "So many world heritage sites have been destroyed. I hope we can recreate them 3-dimensionally."If we reconstruct those temples on film," he said, "maybe that can be a way of getting the stakeholders to realize what could be in the future."
4332.txt:“I had some hope but by yesterday I’d given up. My nails went all white and my lips cracked. I was sure no one was coming for me. I was certain I was going to die,” he said.
4346.txt:Dutta has been sleeping in his home, which has some cracks in the wall, for two nights, but the dozens of small aftershocks that he has felt since Saturday's huge quake make him uneasy. "I am worried about whether they will continue for a long time or whether it will calm down."
4355.txt:Dutta has been sleeping in his home, which has some cracks in the wall, for two nights, but the dozens of small aftershocks that he has felt since Saturday's huge quake make him uneasy. "I am worried about whether they will continue for a long time or whether it will calm down."
4358.txt:“I had some hope, but by yesterday I’d given up,” Rishi Khanal told The Associated Press from his hospital bed Wednesday. “My nails went all white and my lips cracked … I was sure no one was coming for me. I was certain I was going to die.”
4385.txt:When Saturday’s quake began at 11.56am, Tamang said he was having lunch with a friend in the hotel where he worked. As he ran down towards the way out, the stairs shook. He saw walls cracking, ceilings caving in.
438.txt:"There is quite a lot of damage. The building I was in has quite a lot of cracks in it," she said.
438.txt:Video: Earthquake Cracks Road In Two
4396.txt:In this April 26, 2015 file photo, Nepalese people look at a cracked road after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal. In mere seconds a powerful earthquake flattened a swathe of Nepal. Rebuilding the impoverished Himalayan nation¿s fragile economy will require a long slog, financed by foreign aid and money from its army of overseas workers.(AP Photo/Niranjan Shrestha, File)
4407.txt:Among them were Amir and Alon Michaeli-Molian with their new baby Maya and their two-year-old daughter Shira. Amir later told The AJN about the “most horrible night ever experienced” after the quake, when it was too cold to be outside but he feared that the hotel, which had cracked walls, would collapse. He struggled to sterilise a bottle and source clean water to feed Maya, and tried his utmost to put on a brave face for the sake of Shira. “We were exhausted, trying to hold on for the children,” he recalled.
4413.txt:“What I have seen is a lot of destruction. So many buildings collapsed and cracked. I saw a number of bodies on the street. People are still trapped in buildings and we don’t know whether they are dead or alive,” he said.
4413.txt:A youth leader from the church, Santosh Kumar Magar, 29, who had been at an ordination of a priest in eastern Nepal as the quake hit, told how houses cracked and crumbled around him as he made his way home to Kathmandu the following day. He said that many people in the remote village of Okhaldhunga were saved because they had been inside the church taking part in the ordination ceremony.
4461.txt:When Saturday's quake began at 11:56 a.m., Tamang said he was having lunch with a friend in the hotel where he worked. As he ran down toward the way out, the stairs shook. He saw walls cracking, ceilings caving in.
4462.txt:Bull and Stumler kept moving, eventually arriving in the Himalayan nation’s capital, Kathmandu. She saw huge cracks in the roads, demolished buildings, and tent cities. Bull, who works around the U.S. as a traveling emergency room nurse, volunteered at a hospital before tourists were told to go to their embassies.
4469.txt:“I was often tempted to make an attempt to re-enter our house and at least to pick up what little cash and jewellery we had,” he said. “But neither my wife nor I could muster up courage to take the risk: the building shook so badly that it was full of deep cracks and could give way any time.”
446.txt:As Nepal trembled, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Clouds of dust began to swirl all around. Within hours of the quake, hospitals had filled up with hundreds of injured people. With organised relief and rescue largely absent, many were brought to hospitals by friends and relatives in motorised rickshaws, flatbed trucks and cars. Residents used their bare hands, crowbars and other tools to dig through rubble and rescue survivors.
4475.txt:He says he was surrounded by the dead - trapped, dehydrated, his nails went white and his lips cracked - and he'd given up hope until last night.
4476.txt:Rishi Khanal gave up all hope as his lips cracked and his nails turned white before he was extracted from the ruins of a collapsed hotel in Kathmandu by a French-Nepali team.
4479.txt:"I had some hope, but by yesterday I'd given up," Rishi Khanal told The Associated Press from his hospital bed Wednesday. "My nails went all white and my lips cracked ... I was sure no one was coming for me. I was certain I was going to die."
449.txt:A magnitude-6.6 aftershock hit about an hour later, and smaller aftershocks continued to jolt the region for hours. Residents ran out of homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. And clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
450.txt:When the earth first shook, residents fled homes and buildings in panic as walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets.
451.txt:A magnitude-6.6 aftershock hit about an hour later, and smaller aftershocks continued to jolt the region for hours. Residents ran out of homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. And clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
4530.txt:The bishop described the devastating impact of the earthquake on Nepal’s small Catholic community numbering just 10,000 faithful. “Here in Kathmandu city, many Catholic families have cracks in their houses or major damage,” he said.
4540.txt:A glance up explained why: cracks zigzagged up the faces of the brick houses, tall, elegant structures with carved windows, some of which had toppled inward Saturday, crushing the people inside. Occasionally Tuesday, residents would dash in to grab bags of rice or other supplies, but their fear was still so intense that they would not stop to talk.
4540.txt:"This is my house," he said. "It's almost gone. Outside it looks all right, but inside, there are cracks in every corner. If the next 6.5 comes, it goes out."
4551.txt:"There are cracks at our rented accommodation. We are afraid to go back," Meera Tamang, 50, told IANS.
4558.txt:"I saw people running for cover, and I heard people shouting earthquake. I saw the shop starting to crack and collapse. There were bodies all over the place," she said.
4559.txt:"I had some hope but by yesterday I'd given up. My nails went all white and my lips cracked ... I was sure no one was coming for me. I was certain I was going to die," he said.
457.txt:A magnitude-6.6 aftershock hit about an hour later, and at least 16 aftershocks continued to jolt the region for hours. Residents ran out of homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. And clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
4585.txt:WFP dedicated staff and emergency members, working on little sleep and nothing more than crackers, have been relocated to the airport where we are arranging the distribution of food and relief hub operations. The challenges we face are minimal compared to those greatly affected.
458.txt:When the earth first shook, residents fled homes and buildings in panic as walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets.
459.txt:More than 800 people were killed in Nepal and 34 in various parts of India as a powerful earthquake measuring 7.9 on the Richter scale rocked the two South Asian countries, resulting in a massive loss of life and property. Most of the fatalities have been reported from the Kathmandu valley though there is little information pouring in from outlying areas of the region. Reports quoting Nepal police say that at least 876 people have died so far.The rescue operations suffered soon after the sunset as power supply in major areas were disrupted due to snapped lines and shutting down of transformers. Reports said at least 18 bodies have been recovered from the world highest peak everest base camps as a strong avalanche was triggered due to the massive earthquake. Rescue operations are underway but reports said some base camps were buried under snow in the Avalanche ,trapping mountaineers. Reports say the Indian Mountaineers in base camp are safe.In April month a large number mountaineers scale heights on everest . Officials details are yet to be received. At least 34 people were killed at different places that shook most of the parts of Northern India today.As of now as many as 23 deaths are reported in quake related incidents in Bihar.while 8 persons died in Uttar Pradesh and three in West Bengal, Home Secretary L C Goyal said. The Centre is in constant touch with affected states", Mr Goyal said. Centre has put the government agencies in full preparedness for providing all needed assistance in the rescue and relief operations in the affected regions.Prime Minister Narendra Modi held an emergency meeting to take stock of the situation arising in India and Nepal. He assured full help in rescue operations. India has rushed NDRF teams to Nepal and affected parts of India.As after shocks continued to jolt both India and Nepal upto late this evening, relief and rescue operations teams had been put on highest alert. Helicopters continued to hover atop various worst affected areas in Nepal.People are in panic in various parts of Bihar due to recurring aftershocks while victims were battling to cope with the devastation.Power lines had been shut down to avert any major tragedy . In Sikkim, the earthquake was felt and reports reaching here said it triggered landslides and rains were lashing areas. Exact details could not be collected. The intensity was severest in Nepal where the epicenter was reported while its intensity was a bit low in India but areas of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, bordering Nepal, were also hit badly.With the tremblor leaving a trail of death and destruction in the Himalayan nation, local TV channels were showing heaps of bodies even as the authorities launched a massive rescue and relief operation. Chaotic scenes were witnessed outside hospitals where wailing relatives were seen searching their kith and kin.Every minute the toll is rising as rescuers with bare hands were trying to rescue trapped persons. No official figure of the death toll is available so far, but channels and various sources are compiling figures and apprehend that casualty figure might cross 1,000. Many of the injured reported to hospitals with broken limbs and bleeding wounds.Reports received from Kathmandu said casualty figures may be many times higher as several buildings had flattened with people feared buried under the debris. Hospitals were flooded with injured. Access to many lanes and by-lanes in the capital city of Kathmandu has been blocked due to huge mound of debris.Relief and rescue operations have been launched to save people trapped in collapsed buildings and historical monuments and temples. Doctors have pitched camps on streets of Kathmandu to give first aid to the injured.In Nepals Lamjung, the epicentre of the quake, many buildings have been flattened. There are reports of cracks developing at the Kathmandu airport. Flights have been diverted to India.Eyewitnesses said Dharahara Tower/Bhimsen Tower, a 19th century nine-storey tall tower in Kathmandu, has collapsed. About 400 people are believed to be trapped.Yoga guru Baba Ramdev, who is currently in Kathmandu, said he heard a major "explosion" like sound soon after the quake and at least five aftershocks have been felt .Prime Minister Narendra Modi held an emergency meeting to review the situation arising from the quake in India and how New Delhi could assist Nepal in its hour of crisis. He also spoke to Nepal Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who is in transit in Bangkok on his way to Kathmandu. MORE UNI TEAM AT-NB CH 1855 -- (UNI) -- C-1-1-DL0177-96027.Xml
4601.txt:“There are no visible cracks in the runway but there have been so many tremors recently that we have to take precautions — we don’t know what’s happening below the surface.”
4604.txt:There have been reports of cracks on the runway and other problems.
4605.txt:Airport Runaway at risk -Tribhuvan International Airport of capital city Kathmandu has been enduring huge traffic of military carrier planes. Thought there was no sign of any cracks in the runway's inspection; government wants to take no chance with runway's conditions as it's the only lifeline for foreign aid. A recent notice to airport staff prohibits the landing of any plane exceeding 196 tonnes. #Nature
4624.txt:"There are no visible cracks in the runway but there have been so many tremors recently that we have to take precautions -- we don`t know what`s happening below the surface.
462.txt:As Nepal trembled, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
4637.txt:People gather near the cracks on the road caused by an earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic
463.txt:As Nepal trembled, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
4643.txt:He said there have been reports of the runway developing cracks.
466.txt:Rescue crews were racing to pull survivors from the rubble this evening after a powerful earthquake struck Nepal, even as officials said the death toll had soared over 2,100.The earthquake hit about 50 miles northwest of the capital of Kathmandu just before noon local time, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. The magnitude-7.8 quake toppled temples and triggered an avalanche on Mt. Everest.At least 2,100 people have been killed, the Nepal Interior Ministry told ABC News on Sunday.More than 1,000 others were injured, said the country's finance minister, Ram Sharan Mahat.At least 51 were also killed in India, 17 in Tibet, two in Bangladesh and two Chinese citizens died at the Nepal-China border.Sanjay Karki, country director of Mercy Corps in Nepal, said the ground was still shaking and there were predictions that another strong quake could come."The hospital has been overflooded with casualties," Karki said. "People just emptying their houses and you know, coming to open spaces, with blankets, with the children and all."According to the United Nations, nearly 5 million people were impacted by the earthquake, which was believed to be the worst earthquake in Nepal in more than 80 years.Abigail Hunter, an American traveling in Bhaktapur, saw people pulling others out of buildings and using motorbikes and small trucks as makeshift ambulances. The earthquake reduced many of the temples inside the city about 30 minutes away from the capital to rubble, she said, adding that she saw "lots of people praying to the actual temples" as aftershocks hit the city."The streets are littered with bricks, debris, loads of dust," said Hunter, the sister of an ABC News employee. "[It] was hard to see during the earthquake with all the dust."A magnitude-6.6 aftershock hit about an hour after the initial earthquake and smaller aftershocks followed in the region for hours.Hunter said she watched as families ran to their homes to see if anyone was still inside."Everyone was very scared," she said. "Lots of crying, families trying to find each other."Ayal Weiner-Kaplow, another American visiting Bhaktapur, said water wasn't flowing in the city and most of the remaining food was dried junk food and crackers. He said he wandered around in search for something to eat until he came upon a restaurant."A restaurant owner filled us up -- all of our bottles -- and gave us potatoes, bread, and chicken, refused payment adamantly," he said. "I was actually moved to tears."Weiner-Kaplow said most Nepalis were planning to sleep outside tonight, believing their homes were unsafe if another earthquake struck.The quake also killed 34 in India , six in Tibet , two in Bangladesh , and two on the Nepal-China border.The quake also triggered an avalanche on Mt. Everest that killed at least 10 climbers and guides and injured many more.David Arvan, who was set to climb Mt. Everest, said he immediately realized it was an earthquake, after having felt quakes before living in California."We sought shelter under a concave boulder until it subsided," he told ABC News by email. "Some people were crying in fear during all the rumbling."Azim Afif, a climber from Malaysia, was at a base camp when the quake hit and everything in his tent starting shaking."We go out and we see a big snowstorm coming to us," he said, adding that he saw "white, nothing else than white.""We are very lucky to survive," Afif said.The U.S. government is providing $1 million in assistance, according to the U.S. Embassy in Nepal. Disaster relief teams are en route.Secretary of State John Kerry said in a statement, "To the people in Nepal and the region affected by this tragedy we send our heartfelt sympathies.The United States stands with you during this difficult time."The Pakistan Army also said it is sending relief teams.
4676.txt:Twenty-one Thai personnel, including four from the medical team, have also left, two days after Nepal asked rescue teams from India and 33 other countries to leave.Officials had said the Nepalese army and police "would now be taking over from the foreign teams" and that the exercise of foreign rescue teams leaving Nepal would be in a phased manner.Meanwhile, the death toll due to the April 25 earthquake has reached 7,652 so far while the number of injured has shot up to 16,390, the Home Ministry said today.Sindhupalchowk district is the worst-hit with a total death toll of 2,939 while 1,209 died in Kathmandu.Over 2,000 engineers were deployed voluntarily to check safety of houses here in the aftermath of the temblor and have checked over 13,000 buildings so far, including the Rastrapati Bhawan.The rear part of the presidential mansion, popularly known as 'Sheetal Niwas', has been declared unsafe and should now be demolished and rebuilt.President Ram Baran Yadav has moved to a safer place. He had stayed in makeshift tents for six days after cracks appeared on the residence due to the temblor that also damaged Prime Minister Sushil Koirala's home.Of the checked houses, 50 per cent are suitable for residing, 20-25 per cent are unsuitable and remaining others need renovations.A total of 2,79,234 houses have been completely damaged and 237,068 partially damaged, according to the Ministry.
4720.txt:LOUISVILLE, Ky. (WDRB) -- Many of us have seen the horrific images of the earthquake that struck Nepal on Saturday, April 25. As of this writing, the earthquake killed more than 7,000 people and left countless more injured. It even triggered an avalanche that killed several on Mount Everest, the world's tallest peak.Roger Hoagland, a Christian missionary based in Louisville, decided to help. He arrived in the capitol city of Kathmandu at 8:30 a.m. on Tuesday, April 28 -- just three days after the earthquake -- and was among one of the first relief teams to hit the ground in Nepal.After spending one week heading up a medical team there, an emotional Hoagland spoke by phone from Kathmandu with WDRB's Travis Kircher. He talked about the some of the horrors he's witnessed, some of the dangers still present, and how he manages to bring hope to people who have lost everything.This interview took place on May 5, 2015.Yes. I'm a graduate of Fern Creek High School. I graduated in 1972. I graduated from the University of Louisville in 1975 – got my Master's Degree at U of L. I went right into education. I taught at the public school level and then at the private school for the last 25 years. I was the administrator of Evangel Christian School. Also, I served as the mission director for Evangel – it's a large ministry in Louisville.So when the earthquake occurred, I was in a mission. I was in Turkey, and I just felt a prompting to head to Nepal – and I've been there two other occasions, two other years – to lead medical teams up in the mountains. So I was familiar with it. We have assisted with earthquake relief on four other occasions. One in China in 2006. One hundred thousand died in that earthquake. We brought food into the mountains and other assistance. And also three separate trips to Haiti. We were the first to be on a commercial flight into Haiti after the earthquake, so I was somewhat familiar with that process.So I arrived, as I said, just under three days from when the earthquake hit on April 25.First of all, many of the roads were blocked off, and I guess the most frightening thing to me, when you see electric wires on the ground, you think, ‘There's no way we should pass near that.' Well, in this case, you saw tens of thousands of wires down, so I was a little uncomfortable moving around the city.I was impressed with how the people of Nepal work together to try to rescue and uncover in much debris in the area.I was stunned by the leaning buildings – and what happens in this case, you have so many that come down completely, so you just see a mound of rubble. But then you see many that have cracks and are just leaning a little bit. And after a while, day after day, you just kind of forget that they are there.The realization hit me hard the other day. I walked past one, and I was on a sidewalk and I went to a location. Two days later, I came back and I could not pass through that. The building had completely come onto the sidewalk, so had I been there, I would have been killed. So that's something. These buildings are just ready to come down.I would say another thing you observe is that it seems like 25 percent of the buildings are either destroyed or need to be demolished. Another thing I noticed when I arrived is the people out in the streets. As I said, I've been to Nepal before, and have never seen so many people on the streets. And I understood after talking to different ones, that they were afraid to go back into their homes. They had enough sense to know, ‘If my home has numerous cracks in it, it's not safe to be there.' So fields are just flooded with people with makeshift tents and tarps. They're lying on the sidewalk area and everywhere at night.My flight was an early flight for rescue teams. Not many were here at all. But now the teams – and I believe there's 20 nations represented with rescue and relief teams, and they are doing an excellent job. And let me just say, I am so proud of the United States because we stand tall there with our people. You see them on the street so prevalent here.I witnessed the rescue of two people after five days, which was extraordinary. A group from Los Angeles – they were leading the way with that. What happened, they were walking past a building – and again, five days – and they heard the noise of a man, so they started trying to dig him out, which is a frightening operation, because where they're going under, the building can collapse more. So people are really at risk doing that. So the crowd gathered and got larger and larger and the rumor spread that someone was alive. And after seeing so much death, it became just a very exciting moment, so when they pulled him out and put him on a stretcher, it was just a beautiful thing. The crowd erupted in applause, and then a second one was rescued, and it was an exciting day.The one boy looked like he was maybe 25. He looked to be in pretty rough condition physically. That's the one they spent so much time trying to rescue.If you can imagine two rows of servicemen from Nepal combined with United States rescue men from Los Angeles. They just joined arms in these two long lines so people would not push through, because they knew that someone was alive after five days, which was remarkable. I was there perhaps 45 minutes to an hour, and the crowd – just a ballpark figure – was maybe 2,000 people waiting. And rumor spread quickly that someone was found alive. Then you see a group of doctors and medics running ahead, right through the middle of the two lines of servicemen. And right behind them, they're carrying the stretcher of this boy. Again, he looked about 25, very bruised.And then just a little later, there was a man, I would say around 30, that was dressed in army fatigues. But he was also rescued. I don't know the story behind him.Most are, I believe, presumed dead now because of the length of time, but you still have hope.But I will say that, what is troubling to me as a parent – I have four sons – is to walk by…if I walk from here, where I am now, across town, I will pass perhaps 100-200 mounds of rubble. Maybe more. In each of those, it's filled with bodies that haven't been taken out. So as a parent, if you can imagine walking by these and knowing my children or my mother is under there, it's just an overwhelming thing emotionally.And that is everywhere. I'll give you an example. There is a tower that was the largest tower in Kathmandu. And it was an observation deck. But it was an iconic building, very similar to the Eiffel Tower for Paris or the Statue of Liberty for the U.S. So this tower – you would see it in postcards. Anyway, when the earthquake occurred on Saturday just before noon, there were 250 people on top of that tower, or inside of it. The tower came down almost totally, and out of those, they recovered 40 bodies. So one person out of 250 survived that fall. So there are 209 people in that big pile of rubble which I pass. And that is the story all over the city – that they just do not have the equipment to recover the remains. It's just not there. And the task is just too big by hand. And when I say ‘rubble,' some of the ‘rubble' is tree stories high.Something else: As a Christian, we in the United States – most of us – worship on Sunday. They worship here on Saturday, and this occurred right when the churches were in service – in the middle of their service. I was at a location today where there were 75 people worshiping on the seventh floor of a seven-floor building, and most everything under them was clear. People were out shopping or doing whatever for the day – Saturday was their holiday – but this group of worshipers was on the seventh floor. So when the building came down, fortunately, 45 survived injured, [but] 30 died. That is common in many of the churches throughout the city. Christianity is a minority. But nevertheless, it was a very tragic thing for those going to church that day.Well, that's a good question. What I have found is the modern buildings here, most of those stood tall. You can look at a street and see four or five buildings that look untouched, and right next to them will be this big pile of rubble. What was explained to me: the old construction, they used this type of brick that is made of clay. From the outside, it looks like a strong brick, but if you throw it down, it turns into sand, or powder. So that's what happened. Many of these buildings were built with that type of brick, so when they came down from the top, it's just a domino effect.But it amazes me to look at streets where you see some buildings without even a crack.I've been working in a hospital almost every day, bringing food to families and ministering to patients, and the hospital is probably 9-10 stories, and it's frightening just to look on the outside. You have cracks throughout the structure. I'm hoping the foundation is good, but the façade is terrible. And yet, they're continuing to operate there as a full-service hospital.And the need is great. The hallways have been full of victims – and I've worked with, mainly, the earthquake victims. And it's just heartbreaking. There's a lady there that's, just as an example, who is just grieving. She's in pain. Her leg is broken. Her arm is broken. But she's also lost a son. So the emotional toll on her…I've been working, also, with a little girl whose parents cannot even afford to come visit their daughter. They live in a remote area. She has fractures in the bottom of her back. She just had surgery and I've been with her almost every day. Another lady was grieving…and she had lost her son and husband. So when they lose family members, they also lost their home. So it is quite overwhelming.The average income here is about $1,500 U.S. equivalents per year. So very, very poor people – so to start over is a very huge challenge the them.Oh my. I have an interpreter that travels with me. Some of these -- I would say 20 percent do know English. The interpreter helps me there. What I do is I reach out and I touch them. I give them a hug. I shake their hand and I show with my expression how deeply sorry I am, and have the interpreter to help me. That's about all that I can do.But we can do more. If you give them something while you're doing that, I believe that is a comfort. You present them food. You present them money. It's just a little ray of hope that somebody I don't even know is trying to bless my life. So that's part of what I feel I need to do while I'm here – and I'm trying to do – is just be a light in this dark time for them. But it is – it's hard to know what to say. But the Bible speaks that ‘when you've done it to the least of these, my brethren,' you've done it to the Lord, or if you give a cup of water, it's as doing it unto the Lord. I think it's that same principle. We don't know these people. We're not necessarily trying to convert, but we're trying to love them, and be a light and an encouragement to them.Yes – oh yes. Yes. Well, I got out of bed because I thought that somebody had broken into my room, it so scared me. It was just that the beds were moving and there was cracking noise all around me. I guess that was the most frightening one. But there has been, probably while I have been here, three or four or five, that you could just feel the trembling. Nothing serious. But where they are of concern are for the buildings that are unstable and already in very poor condition. That's where you could set them off. Thankfully, not a lot of people are in those buildings. They're using wisdom. But they are continuing to walk right by the buildings, and I think with the idea that they're gonna come straight down to the bottom, but that's not always the case. As I told you before, sometimes they go sideways. That's a significant concern.Yesterday I felt one. I didn't feel it much, but a lady spoke to me. She said, ‘Did you feel that? Did you feel that?' It was in the afternoon yesterday.Well I think on the ground level, a great amount of food has been brought in. In fact, I think that is the challenge. Our group from Louisville is taking tons of this up into the mountains where a lot of aid has not reached these areas. They're devastated. So I would say here the food is good and these transport planes are bringing in tons and tons of food. And they certainly need that.But I think they also need money. Because if you look at the long-term, they're going to have to rebuild. They're going to have to find a place to rent. They're going to have to get strong tents if they're going to endure months like this instead of a tarp. And so I just – I wish I had more money to hand out, and honestly I've handed out so much, because it's one of those situations where you see the needs, and how do you say no? [HOAGLAND'S VOICE FALTERS.] They're everywhere. And you just want to bless – and money works. And they know more than we know what they need. That money does buy them necessities. They know the stores to go to – and there are many stores that are open – that sell the items cheaper than we would find them. So I think people that send in money to these organizations are doing a good thing. They need money.It's not gonna be a quick fix. It's gonna take years to re-establish these communities. Hopefully they build them with modern security techniques that they'll be more stable, because this is, of course, an earthquake-prone area. In 1990s, they had a very large one here.I have not been in the United States since this has happened, so I can't say. I haven't seen news from the United States, but from what I can see from our church, the response was terrific. They rallied together and they're bringing money into Nepal. The team will be here tomorrow morning and have brought in – I don't know the exact figure, but I know it's over $20,000. I was very thankful for that. So I do think people in the United States have this sense of a great need, and hopefully they will contribute. This is a time to step up to the plate.And I believe the U.S., more than any other country, I'll say, except Israel – Israel I have seen in these disasters step up very tall and are quick to be there and quick to set up hospitals. But the United States, I would say, they stand up the tallest as far as bringing in aid and equipment needed.That's one of the things, I will say Travis, there is not enough equipment here. I have been all around the city in-depth, and I have seen perhaps 8-10 large pieces of equipment to move the debris. But if they United States if that happened – in Louisville – we would have hundreds and hundreds of pieces. Perhaps thousands. So they're just short of equipment. And that's going to take time to bring that in from mainland China or India or wherever they can bring those large pieces in, the bulldozers they need and the backhoes and things like that. They just don't have enough.And the airport is woefully inadequate. One runway. And so to get all these – and space for nine planes, smaller planes. It's just not used to the traffic that will be required to come in and bring all the aid. It's just not big enough. But they're doing well. They're pushing some domestic flights back, and I've heard stories where the planes sometimes circle for hours and have to go to India to refuel, then return to Kathmandu and hope they can land. So that's good and bad: the good news is there's a lot of aid and rescue workers going in.Well, I think it's what we should do. Again, it goes back to that philosophy, which is a scripture: if you've done it to the least of these my brethren, you've done it unto me. I think it doesn't matter who they are – if we do know them, if we do not – if there's a need, we try to help. I think that's the spirit of America. It's certainly the spirit of Christianity, to reach out and bless people you don't know. It's a joy for me. I come home, or get into my hotel, and I just feel energized every day in the afternoons when I come in after a long day. It's just, ‘Thank you Lord for my family that's alive in America. Thank you for this opportunity to serve.' It truly is a joy.
4740.txt:Nepal’s Rastrapati Bhawan, a British-era structure, has been declared unsafe for use by a technical team after the building developed cracks due to the devastating temblor.
4740.txt:The building developed cracks after the powerful April 25 earthquake that has killed 7,652 people.
4740.txt:President Ram Baran Yadav has moved to a safer place following the incident. He had stayed in makeshift tents for six days after cracks appeared on the residence due to the temblor.
4751.txt:President Ram Baran Yadav has moved to a safer place. He had stayed in makeshift tents for six days after cracks appeared on the residence due to the temblor that also damaged Prime Minister Sushil Koirala's home.
4760.txt:Her own room had a large crack in the wall. “We couldn’t sleep there so we all slept in the office,” she said. “Some people slept outside.”
4765.txt:It's quiet at the cremation grounds on the hill above Kathmandu, except for the occasional truck and motorcycle horn. And now, the crackling of kindling on the funeral pyre.
4766.txt:“At first I thought I was suffering from altitude sickness and feeling dizzy, but then the chairs started shaking. Then we heard the ice crack,” said the 21-year-old mountaineer.
4766.txt:With just over 200 km separating it from the epicentre of the quake in Barpak, Makalu and other mountains in the range experienced huge avalanches and cracks. Over a dozen climbers lost their lives on Everest, which is 19 km away from Makalu, and the tremors even shrank the mighty mountain by five cm.
4779.txt:Pariyar entered the lobby of one surviving guesthouse to find a crack about two fingers wide snaking across the concrete wall. He stepped back out into the street, looking nervous.
4779.txt:His wife had given birth barely a week earlier, and the constant aftershocks left his mother paralyzed with fear. A few cracks had appeared in their ground-floor apartment and the women had taken the children outdoors to sleep. They took turns running into the house to grab supplies because no one wanted to be alone in there for more than a few seconds.
4802.txt:They shed tears and cry in reliving the moment together: ... The congregation grabbed hands and crouched against an inner wall of their fourth-floor room. Someone prayed aloud and others joined. The pastor, Rajaan Tamang*, looked up and saw the outer wall shaking. He looked over his shoulder and saw a crack form across the wall where they had sought shelter. He knew that if they didn’t get off the fourth floor, they all might die. They lurched down the stairs and gathered in the field outside. A few moments later, a building across the street crumbled and killed seven people. They were safe and together.
4802.txt:“As they worship, the floor begins to shake and the concrete ceiling starts cracking and crumbling. Screams. The ceiling gives way, burying men, women and children. A sickening silence follows,” the worker wrote.
4802.txt:The worker urged prayer “for healing for their cracked and bleeding hearts” at Living Word Church. “[P]ray that out of the rubble, resilience will rise. I’ve seen the resilience of the believers before; they’ve survived bombings and witchdoctors and chose to cling to Christ.
4818.txt:President Ram Baran Yadav has moved to a safer place. He had stayed in makeshift tents for six days after cracks appeared on the residence due to the temblor that also damaged Prime Minister Sushil Koirala’s home.
4822.txt:In towns and villages across the country the scene was the same - dazed families sitting by cracked or flattened homes, jumpy about seemingly endless aftershocks and landslides from loose hillsides, and uncertain of their future.
4832.txt:"There are no visible cracks in the runway but there have been so many tremors recently that we have to take precautions -- we don't know what's happening below the surface.
4838.txt:According to the Maryknoll priest, one of his employees has lost his home. Father Thaler’s home still stands within a neighborhood of downed buildings but it has numerous cracks. He said that the cremation fires burn constantly.
4842.txt:"There are no visible cracks in the runway but there have been so many tremors recently that we have to take precautions - we don't know what's happening below the surface. This runway is the only lifeline for Kathmandu - if it goes, everything goes."
4846.txt:Pokhara sits 73 kilometres east of the epicentre of last Saturday's 7.8-magnitude quake, but when AFP visited the only evidence of a disaster that has killed thousands of people, were a few cracked walls.
484.txt:A team from the Indian National Disaster Response Force evacuated 100 patients from the Darbanga Medical College after cracks appeared in the building.
4852.txt:After a disaster, devastation assaults all of our senses. The sights of collapsed buildings, of bodies and gore; the sounds of crying out in pain, or the distant crack of gunfire; the acrid smell of rotting vegetation or the indescribable scent of decomposing bodies; the taste of our own sweat as we exhaust ourselves trying to make a difference; and the feel of the elements, such as pouring rain or unyielding heat, urging us to give up and go home.
4858.txt:KATHMANDU: Quake-hit Nepal urgently needs one million tents to provide temporary shelter to thousands of victims of the devastating temblor that killed over 7,300 people, Deputy Prime Minister Prakash Man Singh said today.According to the Nepalese government , the earthquake have so far destroyed 1,60,786 houses and damaged 1,43,642, forcing thousands of people to stay in the open battling bad weather."Nepal urgently needs around one million tents to provide shelter to the affected people as more than 300,000 buildings have collapsed during the earthquake," Singh, who is also Nepali Congress general secretary, told PTI.Hundreds of buildings have developed cracks and people are scared to return to their houses, he said.Sing said West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Benerjee will hand over some one lakh tarpaulins to the government of Nepal as relief material. Minister for Urban Infrastructure Development Narayan Khadka has left for Jhapa district near Kakarbhitta to receive the tarpaulins, he said."As you know the monsoon season is fast approaching and it takes months to begin reconstruction works, so we need tents to shelter people. There is no tent manufacturing plant in Nepal, so we are seeking help from possible areas including India, Thailand and Pakistan for tents," Singh said.He said the government is making all efforts to provide relief to the people. He asked people not be taken away by rumours aimed at tarnishing the image of the government.He dismissed comments made by some leftist leaders, who termed foreign assistance pouring to Nepal as interference in our affairs, saying "We need foreign aid, foreign experts and relief materials at this moment and those offering such help cannot be taken as interference.""We also need specially trained foreign manpower to carry out rescue of the victims of the earthquake," he insisted.He dismissed media reports that Indian aircraft involved in rescue and relief operations in Nepal have crossed the border and entered into the border of the northern neighbor."All the foreign aircraft are operating under the command of the Nepal Army and there is no such possibility," he said."Aircraft have arrived not only from India but also from China and USA for relief works and all of them are functioning under the command of Nepal Army," he added.He appreciated government of India for the assistance provided to the quake-hit Nepal.The government has made request to international communities for assistance and we need quick response as time is running out for the relief works, he said."We are getting very positive response from all over the world including, India," he added.
488.txt:Many mountain roads are cracked or blocked by landslides.
488.txt:"We saw cracks emerging in the walls surrounding us - rubble was falling down."
4900.txt:"There's a great need of food and water and a place to stay and people are just afraid to enter into their house because most of them collapse, some are damaged and cracked and people are traumatized," explained S.S. Chhetri, a Nepali pastor.
4929.txt:LUCKNOW: Reports of cracks in Begum Hazrat Mahal's tomb in Nepal after the April 22 earthquake disturbed her family in the city. They have urged Union and state governments to initiate a dialogue with Nepalese authorities so that a restoration work could be undertaken. They have also decided to send a formal letter to prime minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Akhilesh Yadav."Her tomb is memorial of an important chapter in Indian history which must be protected," said Irfan Ali Mirza, Wajid Ali Shah's fifth generation descendent, adding, "There is no control on nature and such vagaries, we can at least expect restoration of the monument. The begum was Wajid Ali's wife. Mirza added that he would wait till life returns to normal in Nepal. "The burden of the quake is tragic. Once life gets back to normal, we would send an appeal to the Nepal government as well," he said.His cousin Asif Ali Mirza said his grandmother was a freedom fighter and deserves respect as in proper maintenance of her memorial. "Many people draw inspiration from it even today," he said. Besides the immediate family members, the Royal Family of Oudh (a body comprising Royals in Avadh) will also send a petition for getting the tomb restored. "Begum is Oudh's pride and her memorial deserves respect," said Shikoh Azad, the secretary."She never gave up and that's what appeals to women universally," said Madhu Garg, state secretary, All India Democratic Women's Association. After East India Company exiled Wajid Ali Shah, Hazrat Mahal combated them with courage and determination."She was orphaned at an early age, lived with her artisan uncle who had modest means. Her life took a dramatic turn when she defied protocol and refused to dance at one of Wajid Ali Shah's theatrical performances, where he often played the role of Krishna," recalled Roshan Taqui, who has authored a book on the Begum.Citing a reference from recently published 'In The City of Gold and Silver - The Story of Begum Hazrat Mahal', Ravi Bhatt said, "Intrigued more than offended, the ruler of Oudh told her to explain her reluctance. She told him that she wrote poetry. The nawab then invited her to recite one of her compositions. She complied without hesitation. He was so wonder-struck that he took her into his harem. When she bore him a son, Birjis Qudar, he took her as his fourth wife.Author of this book, Kenize Mourad, was deeply impressed by the begum's strategies and courage. In an interview, she said, "Rani of Jhansi Lakshmi Bai is remembered because she died on the battlefield. She fought for about four or five months. But Begum Hazrat Mahal fought the British for two years. It took the British nine months to gain control over Lucknow. The begum continued her fight for a year after this." She later took asylum in Nepal where she died in 1879.
4945.txt:“There are no visible cracks in the runway but there have been so many tremors recently that we have to take precautions — we don’t know what’s happening below the surface.”
4946.txt:“There are no visible cracks in the runway but there have been so many tremors recently that we have to take precautions — we don’t know what’s happening below the surface.
4985.txt:And then a fantastic explosion shot across the frozen valley. A crack in the sky.
4985.txt:Up at Camp 1, Watkins listened to radio transmissions from the valley below, the crackling filled with gruesome updates. His team's base camp was among the hardest hit. Same with Alan Arnette, a veteran alpinist from Colorado, who was with Seattle-based Madison Mountaineering. Part of Arnette's team was still down at base camp, including several Sherpas and a friendly ER physician's assistant named Marisa Eve Girawong from Edison Township, New Jersey.
5015.txt:The scuffed marble floors lead up to walls ridden with cracks from the earthquake and the aftershocks that followed. Patients lie across hallways in the wards in between improvised drip stands and wheelchairs cobbled together from lawn furniture and bicycle wheels.
5020.txt:"Nepal urgently needs around one million tents to provide shelter to the affected people as more than 300,000 buildings have collapsed during the earthquake," Singh, who is also Nepali Congress general secretary, told PTI.Hundreds of buildings have developed cracks and people are scared to return to their houses, he said.Sing said West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Benerjee will hand over some one lakh tarpaulins to the government of Nepal as relief material. Minister for Urban Infrastructure Development Narayan Khadka has left for Jhapa district near Kakarbhitta to receive the tarpaulins, he said."As you know the monsoon season is fast approaching and it takes months to begin reconstruction works, so we need tents to shelter people. There is no tent manufacturing plant in Nepal, so we are seeking help from possible areas including India, Thailand and Pakistan for tents," Singh said.He said the government is making all efforts to provide relief to the people. He asked people not be taken away by rumours aimed at tarnishing the image of the government.He dismissed comments made by some leftist leaders, who termed foreign assistance pouring to Nepal as interference in our affairs, saying "We need foreign aid, foreign experts and relief materials at this moment and those offering such help cannot be taken as interference.""We also need specially trained foreign manpower to carry out rescue of the victims of the earthquake," he insisted.He dismissed media reports that Indian aircraft involved in rescue and relief operations in Nepal have crossed the border and entered into the border of the northern neighbor."All the foreign aircraft are operating under the command of the Nepal Army and there is no such possibility," he said."Aircraft have arrived not only from India but also from China and USA for relief works and all of them are functioning under the command of Nepal Army," he added.He appreciated government of India for the assistance provided to the quake-hit Nepal.The government has made request to international communities for assistance and we need quick response as time is running out for the relief works, he said."We are getting very positive response from all over the world including, India," he added.
5022.txt:Since returning home from a professional meeting in London on April 26, a day after the 7.8-magnitude earthquake shook the region, Thapa has been working at the family compound. As more neighbors felt confident to travel to their own families outside Kathmandu, the number of house guests in the Thapa family compound in the Old Baneshwar neighborhood has dwindled. When she finally visited her own home, she found cupboards overturned, walls cracked, and the family cars blocked by debris. She also learned of the damage to the main building at the maternity hospital in Kathmandu. The hospital staff is dealing only with emergencies, she said. Women who have given birth are recovering on mats on the ground floor.
5033.txt:"We jumped out of the house as it developed deep cracks," he says.
5056.txt:"There are no visible cracks in the runway but there have been so many tremors recently that we have to take precautions – we don't know what's happening below the surface.
5063.txt:Pillion-riding back to my place, I could see the devastation, though in bits and pieces. The traumatised Kathmanduites were out on the streets. Many walls had collapsed, and many houses had visible cracks. My little daughter pointed out instances of devastation, saying it was due to the earthquake.
5066.txt:“Our house has developed major cracks and it is right by the river bank. We have left all our belongings inside and we are now sleeping under tents at a community place,” she said.
5067.txt:Volunteers stand precariously atop a two-story-high pile of crumbled bricks, scouring it for relics. A temple nearby, part of the site's hilltop complex, has big cracks and looks like it could topple and crush them at any minute.
5067.txt:SIEGLER: Volunteers stand precariously atop a two-story-high pile of crumbled bricks, scouring it for treasures. A temple right by them has big cracks and looks like it could topple and crush them any minute. This is dangerous, but important work, says Suresh Shrestha, who's peeled off his dust mask and is taking a break in the shade. He's undersecretary for Nepal's Department of Archaeology.
5070.txt:Cracks in the polity
5070.txt:To an apolitical observer of the national scene who is also the proverbial middle-class admi and military veteran, the month of April was an opportunity to watch our democracy and governance from the sidelines. An exercise that has left one feeling, at times, deeply ashamed of being an Indian and at others equally proud. On the menu of events that have put the nation-state to test recently have been three widely disparate happenings. The land acquisition bill has been the testing ground not just for our politics and parliamentarians, but also of the very morals and ethics by which we preach and practice democracy. The war in Yemen, on the other hand, was a man-made international security challenge that involved evacuation of our nationals in the midst of a shooting ground and air war. Finally, the devastating earthquake, with its epicentre in Nepal, that overwhelmed a brotherly neighbour, together with some of our border states, and towards which international efforts at relief are still continuing. Since the majority of our people depend on agriculture for livelihood, any laws or issues relating to land have a direct bearing on their lives. Not surprisingly, the land acquisition bill has become a battleground for the government on the one hand and those opposing it on the other. But one does expect a caring democracy to treat a topic of such significance to a majority of its people with due sensitivity, and for political parties and parliamentarians to view it through the prism of ethics and morality rather than political partisanship. Sadly, what one has seen is precisely the latter couched as morality. Rather than engaging in a constructive debate that the common man can judge the merits and demerits of, we have an influential Opposition leader using terms like "suited booted" and "pro-corporate government", and hurling unsubstantiated accusations against the prime minister supporting the bill to pay off corporate loans taken for election purposes. This has not just trivialized the debate on a subject vital to the future of our society, but also demonstrated little regard for the common man's intelligence. Then, to add insult to injury, we had the spectacle of the Aam Aadmi Party, which has won a landslide mandate in the recent Delhi elections, not quite believing that it is now a party of governance and not an assorted bunch of over-zealous activists. Their rally in the name of farmers at Jantar Mantar against the land bill tragically saw one farmer, Gajendra Singh Rajput, climb a tree, shout slogans and hang to death. Whilst the sequence of events and the cause of the tragedy are subject to police investigation, what must shock the nation is that it happened in real time barely a few metres away from the dais on which were seated the chief minister, his ministerial colleagues and assorted hangers-on, pouting platitudes over the public address system. Even after news of this death had sunk in, the CM continued his tirade accusing the police of not acting to prevent the tragedy and the Central government for working against the interest of farmers. Here was a leader whose animal instinct of self-preservation was so overpowering that having failed to save Gajendra Singh's life, he chose to save his own political skin by indirectly instigating the crowd that could well have vented its fury on the policemen nearby. The tragedy of the moment may have missed leaders of the AAP, but was not lost on the people of India as subsequent reactions in the media showed. It did not take long for the politically thick-skinned leadership to change track as the very next day a news channel showed us a split screen image of the voluble spokesperson of the AAP sobbing unashamedly on one side, with the young daughter of Gajendra Singh composed in dignified sorrow, on the other. This single image and the subsequent apology by a mellowed chief minister were loud enough signals to portray the hollow leadership qualities of the AAP. By now, the chief minister's tantrums followed by solemn apologies are par for the course and one can only commiserate with the people of Delhi who must wonder when, and in what form, the next surprise will come. The Opposition leader's tirade against the government in Parliament and this image of the AAP spokesperson sobbing are proof, if any were needed, of the hollowness of our democracy. Shallow individuals living privileged lives in Lutyens's Delhi, masquerading as saviours of the toiling masses and playing politics with their lives. Where some electoral winners behave like spoiled brats and electoral losers quite happy to sink the entire ship of state, purely to avenge electoral defeat or personal egos. For someone who donned the military uniform at the age of 16, and was privileged to wear it for the next 42 years, through which the only mantra was "service before self", the absence of an ethical and moral approach to the complex issues affecting the well-being of our farmers in the upholders of our democracy makes us ashamed of being part of this sham democracy. Fortunately, one saw hope when the Yemen crisis confronted us. The minister of external affairs informed members of Parliament that Operation Rahat, involving the evacuation of Indian and foreign nationals from war-torn Yemen, had been a resounding success and acknowledged as such by the international community. She added that 4,741 Indians and 1,947 nationals from 48 different countries had been evacuated safely, the operation being guided in the spirit of " vasudhaiva kutumbakam" or "the world is one family". She lauded the efforts of the minister of state, V.K. Singh, who personally supervised these operations and said of him that he did not work as a minister, but as a General. While Singh deserves full credit for his bold and inspiring leadership, one worries that lauding his achievements in military terms may reawaken those harbouring the Nehruvian fear of the ghost of military boots marching up the Rajpath. Operation Rahat was possible because of the combined effort of the team of 26 officials deputed from the MEA with operational elements of the Indian air force, Indian navy, Shipping Corporation, Indian merchant marine, Air India and many others, all of which made for Team India - proof, if any were needed, of our potential when we work as one under inspired leadership for the larger good, rather than in silos for our own petty political and selfish ends. This brings us to our response to the unfolding Nepal tragedy, aptly termed Operation Maitri. An essential quality of a leader is one that may not ever be tested: the leader's response to emergent situations. No sooner had the quake struck than it was heartening to see that none other than the prime minister sounded the bugle. As the home minister said in Parliament, the prime minister was up and running even before the magnitude of the disaster had been absorbed fully. He spoke to chief ministers of the affected states and assured support and spoke to the leadership of beleaguered Nepal. What filled one's heart with immense pride were the images of an IAF C-130 Hercules carrying a rapid reaction team of the national disaster relief force, lifting off from Hindon IAF base within four hours of the tragedy having struck. Clearly, teamwork was on full display from the word go and we are witness to this on our TV screens to this hour. The joint press conferences led by the affable foreign secretary along with all his colleagues exude the type of confidence that is so vital for the morale of those who are in the field working under great odds and, more important, those at the receiving end of this tragedy. At the apex level, the prime minister is holding regular review meetings and the leadership is inspiring every Indian to put their best foot forward. Private airlines were ready the very first day and the entire corporate sector of heavy weights is ready to play its part in this national humanitarian effort - yes, the same corporate sector that is the whipping boy of some of our hollow politics. Here was Team India displaying its worthy potential once again. Ironically, it has taken two tragedies, one man-made and the other natural, to make one feel very proud to be an Indian. There is, however, a sting in the tail. Even as thousands wait patiently to be evacuated from Kathmandu, Ram Gopal Yadav, a Samajwadi Party member, complained in the Rajya Sabha of the Indian Mission in Nepal not being helpful to relatives of his colleague, Naresh Agrawal, MP. Implicit in the complaint was that the relatives were not given VIP priority to exit Kathmandu. While the foreign minister was constrained to appeal to members not to put pressure on overworked embassy staff, she did confirm that the VIP relatives were back. The moral and ethical cracks between what our parliamentarians preach and what they practice appear as wide as the cracks seen on the land after the disaster in Nepal. The larger question is that even if one MP displays qualities of self before service, it is one too many. Let this be a wake-up call to all Indians to hold leaders with feet of clay to account. The author is a retired air marshal of the Indian Air Force
5093.txt:"We cannot decide our future or what happens to us," she said, surrounded by cracked walls. "Even after the world, we will be with God.”
5107.txt:It had done it with Maldives (cracking down of a mercenary-led coup attempt), Sri Lanka (the infamous IPKF intervention) and even Bangladesh (Farakka waters). But with Nepal, it happens too often because its economy owes its survival to India, which does betray an attitude of dominance. And every time India shows this attitude, Nepalese recoil and react.
5108.txt:I’m now safely back at home in the UK, having negotiated the chaos at Kathmandu airport yesterday to get one of the few flights out. I was with the family of a Nepal-based colleague being pushed along with a crowd of hundreds when the second quake hit. Instinctively, I grabbed my colleague’s young son and hunkered down by a wall. As the ground buckled and flexed I watched the screws supporting the large information display above our heads pop out one by one. It somehow clung onto to the wall but the electricity was down, the control tower was abandoned, the jagged marble floor cracked open, and there was yet more panic and shouting. But the plane did eventually take off. I feel very lucky to be back here in the UK and I can’t get those left behind out of my head.
5138.txt:There have been reports of cracks on the runway and other problems at the only airport capable of handling jetliners.
5141.txt:There have been reports of cracks on the runway and other problems at the only airport capable of handling jetliners.
5146.txt:There have been reports of cracks on the runway and other problems at the only airport in Nepal capable of handling jetliners.
518.txt:According to Sandberg Reisid representative Kaarel Liivamäe who has been in contact with the group currently in Nepal, they told him the earthquake triggered falling of rocks, caused cracks in the terrain and a mudslide. «One traveller tragically perished,» said Mr Liivamäe. As far as he knows, no Estonian has suffered serious injuries.
522.txt:“We witnessed terrible scenes of destruction — hospitals were evacuated with patients being treated on the ground outside, homes and buildings demolished and some roads cracked wide open,” said Eleanor Trinchera, Caritas Australia programme coordinator for Nepal, who was an hour outside the capital when the quake struck.
5232.txt:"You could hear off in the distance ice and rocks cracking off the peaks," he said. "It became kind of frightening because you thought, 'What's going to come down on top of us?' "
523.txt:"We witnessed terrible scenes of destruction - hospitals were evacuated with patients being treated on the ground outside, homes and buildings demolished and some roads cracked wide open," said Eleanor Trinchera, Caritas Australia programme coordinator for Nepal, who was an hour outside the capital when the quake struck.
5254.txt:The civic bodies have also been directed to indicate in their reports whether buildings in the city are complying with the structural stability norms prescribed in the National Building Code (NBC) for SZ IV. The petition also cited that instances of houses tilting and walls developing cracks were reported from Trilokpuri in east Delhi after the recent earthquake in Nepal.
5259.txt:"We were worried about Rumi Darwaza, built by Nawab Asaf-ud-Daula in Lucknow in 1784. It is in alarming condition, but nothing happened to it. The 'tell-tale glass' strips that we use to monitor cracks in the monuments were also fine and did not shatter after the quake," Pathak added.
525.txt:“We witnessed terrible scenes of destruction -- hospitals were evacuated with patients being treated on the ground outside, homes and buildings demolished and some roads cracked wide open,” said Eleanor Trinchera, Caritas Australia programme coordinator for Nepal, who was an hour outside the capital when the quake struck.
5260.txt:Lucknow Circle Superintending Archaeologist N K Pathak said his teams conducted physical survey of all monuments in the jurisdiction and pointed out it was quite a task to inspect the tall minarets. “We were worried about Rumi Darwaza, built by Nawab Asaf-ud-Daula in Lucknow in 1784. It is in alarming condition, but nothing happened to it. The ‘tell-tale glass’ strips that we use to monitor cracks in the monuments were also fine and did not shatter after the quake,” Pathak added. ASI Superintending Archaeologist of Patna Circle H J Naik has also reported that the protected monuments in Bihar and Jharkhand were completely safe after the temblor.
5283.txt:First, he said he heard a sound like thunder, then an almighty crack. He turned to see a chunk of rock and ice sliding down the mountain, sweeping away everything before it. "It was like watching a wave crashing down the hillside," said Rijal, 40, interviewed in Dhunche, a town in the foothills of Langtang National Park and the base for recovery operations in Langtang.
5324.txt:Weeds have outgrown the recently planted corn in the villagers’ fields, cracks and fissures have cleaved the land at places, and the villagers are ill prepared for the rice-planting season, which is just round the corner.
5326.txt:In all the criticism about the slow government response to the 25 April earthquake, what many forget is that governance in Nepal was a disaster zone even before the earthquake. Slow delivery of services, lack of coordination, mismanagement, ad hoc decisions and corruption have been the hallmarks of our soft state. Despite the restoration of democracy and regular elections, accountability has somehow always fallen between the cracks. Leaders who traditionally thrived on patronage have felt no need for performance-based legitimacy.
5373.txt:Everywhere the group walked for the next few days they encountered cracked and crumbling homes, massive landslides, even a bridge that was buried under tons of rock but it still had to be crossed.
5414.txt:First, he said he heard a sound like thunder, then an almighty crack. He turned to see a chunk of rock and ice sliding down the mountain, sweeping away everything before it. “It was like watching a wave crashing down the hillside,” said Rijal, 40, interviewed in Dhunche, a town in the foothills of Langtang National Park and the base for recovery operations in Langtang.
5416.txt:President Ram Baran Yadav has moved to a safer place. He had stayed in makeshift tents for six days after cracks appeared on the residence due to the temblor that also damaged Prime Minister Sushil Koirala's home. Of the checked houses, 50 per cent are suitable for residing, 20-25 per cent are unsuitable and remaining others need renovations.
5422.txt:First, he said he heard a sound like thunder, then an almighty crack. He turned to see a chunk of rock and ice sliding down the mountain, sweeping away everything before it. “It was like watching a wave crashing down the hillside,” said Rijal, 40, interviewed in Dhunche, a town in the foothills of Langtang National Park and the base for recovery operations in Langtang.
5423.txt:First, he said he heard a sound like thunder, then an almighty crack. He turned to see a chunk of rock and ice sliding down the mountain, sweeping away everything before it. "It was like watching a wave crashing down the hillside," said Rijal, 40, interviewed in Dhunche, a town in the foothills of Langtang National Park and the base for recovery operations in Langtang.
5428.txt:Then, Emanuel says, they noticed the ground had cracked beneath their feet.
5428.txt:When the quake hit around noon on April 25, Emanuel and his guide, Dilli Magar, were taking a detour on the Tamang Heritage Trail en route to their originally scheduled trek in the Langtang National Park. They saw the aforementioned landslide and the cracks in the ground, and the locals began to panic.
5429.txt:It’s quiet at the cremation grounds on the hill above Kathmandu, except for the occasional truck and motorcycle horn. And now, the crackling of kindling on the funeral pyre.
5443.txt:Similarly, some shops have reopened at the City Centre which has sustained several cracks and other damage. Although the cinema theatre, food court and game zone have not resumed services, the department store and some apparel stores were open on Wednesday.
5476.txt:First, he said he heard a sound like thunder, then an almighty crack. He turned to see a chunk of rock and ice sliding down the mountain, sweeping away everything before it. "It was like watching a wave crashing down the hillside," said Rijal, 40, interviewed in Dhunche, a town in the foothills of Langtang National Park and the base for recovery operations in Langtang.
5496.txt:The Nepalese government has cracked down on unmanned aerial vehicles following the magnitude 7.8 that hit the country in late April.
5507.txt:My second experience of an earthquake was on October 8, 2005, when I was the governor of Jammu and Kashmir. The earthquake started just when my helicopter was touching the ground at the helipad in Baramulla. Our helicopter started swaying. The general commanding the division had come to receive me. I cancelled my programme at Baramulla and the general and I flew soon after the earthquake to Uri and Tithwal where much damage had taken place. The epicentre of this earthquake was at Muzaffarabad in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and some 80,000 people had been killed. Our casualties were 1,000 dead as only village hamlets in the mountains were seriously affected. The Valley floor, including Srinagar and Baramulla, had no casualties though the walls of some buildings had cracked.
5509.txt:‘‘Our Hope Disability Centre is in well state except few cracks on the wall and about to finish ramp. There is no harm to staff, relatives and neighbours.
5527.txt:After the earthquake, the major structure of the Civil Service Hospital was intact and solid, as well as the overall appearance, the outer wall, doors and windows and glasses. No cracks are found in the beam columns, and the interior walls were also free from cracks. The indoor suspended ceiling and the floor tile were generally good, with only a few suspended ceiling falling off and a little transverse cracks found in the outer wall of the second floor. Currently, the hospital is still in the intense operation to receive the wounded from Katmandu and other regions continuously, and it has become an important rescue center there.
557.txt:"Communication is down in many areas. Widespread destruction, rubble and landslides are preventing access to provide aid in many villages."Mike Bruce, regional communications manager for the Plan International aid organisation, said many areas -- both rural and in some of the larger towns -- had suffered landslides and roads were blocked.Although mobile networks appeared to be being restored by mid-afternoon on Sunday, he said, coverage remained sporadic."People are sleeping on the streets and cooking outside for the most part. And we are talking about very, very poor areas of Nepal -- areas that are already suffering a great deal," said Bruce.Other aid organisations relayed fears that stocks of essential supplies were rapidly running out, and described the fearsome effects of the quake."We witnessed terrible scenes of destruction -- hospitals were evacuated with patients being treated on the ground outside, homes and buildings demolished and some roads cracked wide open," said Eleanor Trinchera, Caritas Australia programme coordinator for Nepal, who was an hour outside the capital when the quake struck.A lack of electricity would soon be complicated by a scarcity of water, aid groups said, with medical supplies also dwindling, while Oxfam told AFP morgues were reaching capacity."Communication systems are congested and hospitals are crowded and are running out of room for storing dead bodies," Helen Szoke, the charity's Australia chief executive, told AFP.Survivors also slept in the open in Kathmandu overnight, braving the cold for fear of being crushed by teetering buildings.Hundreds of structures, including office blocks and a landmark nine-storey tower, crashed to the ground at around midday on Saturday when the 7.8-magnitude quake struck.As Nepal began to take stock of the devastation, a US disaster response team was en route and an initial $1 million in aid to address immediate needs had been authorised, the US Agency for International Development said.Australia and New Zealand together pledged more than $4.5 million, and South Korea promised $1 million in humanitarian aid.India dispatched two military transport planes as it emerged that at least 53 people had died there from the effects of the massive quake.Russia said two of its planes would fly out Sunday, carrying specialist rescuers, doctors and psychologists as well as equipment including helicopters and drones.Sri Lanka said a military C-130 aircraft carried a 48-member medical and relief team along with medicines, bandages, water and power generators, while a second aircraft would take more doctors and nurses.Pakistan said two C-130 aircraft carrying equipment for a 30-bed hospital, food and search and rescue teams had arrived in Nepal.A 62-member Chinese search and rescue team with sniffer dogs was on the ground in Kathmandu and a medical team would be mobilised and work started on an emergency aid plan, state news agency Xinhua reported.Eighteen people were killed by the earthquake in Tibet.A Singaporean search and rescue team was also heading for Nepal, while Japan's own 70-strong emergency services team departed on Sunday.A 45-strong team of rescue experts, doctors and other experts, from Belgium, Germany and Luxembourg, was leaving on a Belgian military plane.France's foreign ministry said it had dispatched a rescue team carrying essential supplies.Germany, Britain and Spain also pledged support and assistance, with Norway promising to provide 30 million krone ($3.9 million, 3.5 million euros) in humanitarian aid.Israel said it was sending an aid delegation to Nepal, including a team of paramedics and doctors.Charity Christian Aid launched an appeal for funds and said it was working with partner agencies to reach the worst hit areas, describing an "urgent need" for emergency shelters, food, clean drinking water and warm clothing.Numerous aid groups and NGOs also announced help. Medecins Sans Frontieres (Doctors Without Borders) was dispatching an inflatable hospital with a 60-80 bed capacity. (AFP)
5580.txt:Manhart said he had consulted with one earthquake expert from Kyoto University of Japan. The expert said the earthquake triggered many deep cracks in the soil at many sites. As soon as the rainy season comes, water could flow into the heavily damaged Swayambhunath which is located on high ground and landslides may occur.
5590.txt:President Ram Baran Yadav has moved to a safer place. He had stayed in makeshift tents for six days after cracks appeared on the residence due to the temblor that also damaged Prime Minister Sushil Koirala's home.
5598.txt:The Boudha Stupa, which has the largest stupa in Nepal, suffered cracks on its main body after the massive earthquake on April, 25, 2015. The photo, taken in 2012, shows the Boudha Stupa on the outskirts of Nepal's capital, Kathmandu. [Photo: CRIENGLISH.com] The numerous temples and historic monuments destroyed in the massive earthquake in Nepal last month represent a dramatic loss of culture, with repairs and reconstruction expected to last for decades. CRI's Tu Yun brings you a close of the historical sites. 0507party.mp3 Piles of bricks, wooden beams, and other debris are littered throughout Patan Durbar Square in Nepal's capital, Kathmandu. "I am deeply hurt. I can't put it into words. I feel really, really bad. I don't know how I will heal." "I feel like this is now a graveyard. This is where we played, where we grew up. Seeing all these temples destroyed I feel so depressed. I just can't describe it." At least 14 historic buildings have been destroyed or severely damaged in the quake, including 12 on the UNESCO World Heritage list. The iconic 9-storey Dharahara tower, a major tourist attraction in Kathmandu which was nearly 200 years old, has been reduced to just its base. The country's oldest Swayambhunath temple, which was built 2,500 years ago, was also damaged. The United Nation's cultural agency, UNESCO, is describing the scale of damage caused by the earthquake as "very rare" among any natural disaster in modern history. This could be a deadly blow to the country's tourism industry, which accounts for around 8-percent of Nepal's GDP. Ye Liang, a Chinese Buddhist teacher based in Kathmandu, suggests rebuilding the main structures within a year or two. "If we can draw enough manpower to reconstruct the main buildings of the destroyed historical sites in one or two years, it will not impose much impact on Nepal's tourism. Later, we can rebuilt other buildings gradually." Wang Bing with the Beijing University of Civil Engineering and Architecture says the reconstruction work still faces a lot of difficulties. "Nepal of course will put relief work and humanitarian aid on the top agenda. They have to settle down residents who lost their homes in the quake and repair damaged infrastructure. Only after that, they can spare hand to embark on cultural sites reconstruction." Cultural officials in Nepal agree the reconstruction work will be challenging, with very high costs and a lack of technology and technical manpower. However, UNESCO Representative to Nepal Christian Manhart is quite optimistic as they have architectural features like sculptures, carved wooden beams, cornerstones, which can be reused. "We have detailed photographs, we have architectural plans and drawings, we have measurements, so this will be a very good basis for future reconstruction but of course it will be extremely costly and the government of Nepal and UNESCO we are counting very much on the international solidarity to help with this enormous task." The cultural agency is currently preparing to field an international expert mission to undertake an in-depth damage assessment and then advise and provide support to the Nepalese authorities and local communities on the protection and conservation of the damage.
5640.txt:After a disaster, devastation assaults all of our senses. The sights of collapsed buildings, of bodies and gore; the sounds of crying out in pain, or the distant crack of gunfire; the acrid smell of rotting vegetation or the indescribable scent of decomposing bodies; the taste of our own sweat as we exhaust ourselves trying to make a difference; and the feel of the elements, such as pouring rain or unyielding heat, urging us to give up and go home.
5650.txt:As he ran down toward the way out, the stairs shook. He saw walls cracking, ceilings caving in.
5685.txt:She said: “We had to run across the room and we got under a table. You just saw the wall crack. I thought someone was going to have to dig us out.”
568.txt:"We witnessed terrible scenes of destruction -- hospitals were evacuated with patients being treated on the ground outside, homes and buildings demolished and some roads cracked wide open," said Eleanor Trinchera, Caritas Australia programme coordinator for Nepal, who was an hour outside the capital when the quake struck.
5698.txt:Israel’s “crime”, it turns out, was to have offered humanitarian help. Almost as soon as the appalling loss of life in Nepal became global news, Israel rallied a crack team of doctors, nurses, rescue workers and auxiliaries. Two hundred and sixty Israelis and a raft of medicines and supplies were readied to fly to Kathmandhu, the capital of Nepal, and close to the epicentre of the earthquake.
5762.txt:That’s why many of the surrogate mothers in Nepal are actually Indian. It all seemed like a perfect market-driven globalized solution for a knotty social problem until a 7.9 earthquake cracks open the legal complications within it.
5776.txt:Prabhu Dutta, a 27-year-old banker, told AP he had slept amid the cracked walls of his Kathmandu home for the past two nights, but was worried by the continued aftershocks, calling them a “morning wakeup notice”. He said: “I am worried about whether they will continue for a long time or whether it will calm down.”
583.txt:FMCG firm Dabur said its factory building has developed cracks but there is no loss to life or property.
583.txt:"There has been no impact on our operations in Nepal because of the earthquake. The factory building has developed some cracks, but it will not impact operations. There is no loss of life or property," Dabur India Ltd spokesperson said.
5842.txt:Once a picturesque village located along the famous Manaslu circuit, all that is remaining of Barpak today is rubble piles, a lot of them. A large majority of the villagers have been rendered homeless in the aftermath of the earthquake. Even their farmlands are riddled with cracks.
5842.txt:Other estimates have been higher. Huge numbers of ancient monuments and important cultural buildings will also need to be restored, if they are not demolished. Major palaces in Kathmandu have been damaged and cracked.
5847.txt:"A lot of the kids lost their homes, and many people were too scared to go back into their homes," Fowler explained of his audience, many of whom were living in a camp set up for those affected by the earthquake. "Some houses were totaled, and other houses were so damaged that you don't even want to go in them to get your stuff out because the cracks [in the ground] are so big."
5858.txt:Speaking to the Wetherby News, he said: “We felt the building violently shake and hid under a table while the walls around us started cracking and falling. That lasted for maybe 10 seconds and there were aftershocks for the next two days.
5867.txt:Other estimates have been higher. A large number of ancient monuments and important cultural buildings will also need to be restored, if they are not demolished. Palaces in Kathmandu have been damaged and cracked.
5889.txt:‘‘Our Hope Disability Centre is in well state except few cracks on the wall and about to finish ramp. There is no harm to staff, relatives and neighbours.
5890.txt:"I have some hope that restoration can be very successful, because in the rubble we have all the architectural features. So what cracked down is mainly the brick walls. And the statues and the wooden beams, which are very beautifully carved in most of these temples, all of them are there," he said.
5898.txt:"Everyone's house has been cracked to some degree. In my sister's case, the house is standing, but it is no longer on its foundation. The whole entrance is moved so that she cannot even open the door and get into the house," he said.
5903.txt:"Everyone's house has been cracked to some degree. In my sister's case, the house is standing, but it is no longer on its foundation. The whole entrance is moved so that she cannot even open the door and get into the house," he said.
5924.txt:“I’ve gone to villages in and around Gorkha, near the epicentre, where I’ve witnessed the destruction of homes and met people who have lost everything,” she wrote in an email Thursday. “People who are currently without a home impressed upon me their concern for communities that are more isolated and will perhaps never have the benefit of assistance from local or international organizations. I sheltered from a rain storm under a leaky tarp shared by several families who will be living there for the days and weeks to come as monsoon season approaches, unable to return to their cracked and broken homes for fear of collapse.”
5930.txt:A man rides a motorcycle on a cracked road in Sindhupalchok, northeast Nepal, April 29, 2015. The death toll from a powerful earthquake in Nepal climbed to 5,844, said the country's Ministry of Home affairs in its latest update on Thursday. (Xinhua/Xu Yanyan)
5943.txt:“Giant cracks, shifting soil and mini-rock slides are all still happening and complicating rescue efforts both inside and outside urban areas,” Katie Beth Miksa said. “There are still thousands in need of aid, so they (the group) hope that everyone will stay mindful of the situation in Nepal even as it transitions out of headline news.”
5947.txt:Frequent cracks on the runway have been affecting smooth operations at TIA since 2011.
5958.txt:She said that the cafeteria was damaged and the children’s pool developed cracks with water seeping out. But the walls and buildings held. No cracks were visible.
5958.txt:“Buildings had fallen all over, There were huge cracks in many of them and some had been reduced to sheer rubble. In my area, over 20 percent of the buildings had disappeared,” Gabba, who is from Albania, said. She’s married to an Australia and has dual citizenship.
5958.txt:At home, she left her girls outside and went in to examine the damage. “Every wall had developed cracks, and things were thrown here and there,” she said. She gathered a few essentials and picked up a box supplied by Unicef which had disaster relief material.
5963.txt:My parents had been sleeping outside their house in a nearby open space. They recently moved back inside. My uncle and aunt live with their two children in Kathmandu. They have minor injuries. They lived in a shared tent with neighbors for two days. Due to rain, I was told their son got sick. Our house has some cracks. Nothing life-threatening though.
5965.txt:They have a lot of work ahead of them. The road to the clinic is now blocked and all of the homes are damaged. The clinic that was serving a population of 60,000 Kumari people has large cracks in the walls and one wall missing entirely. Medicine bottles lie smashed on the clinic's floor.
5965.txt:"We won't forget the people of the Kumari," Baker said, his voice rising and cracking as he was overcome with emotion. "We will be there six months from now and six years from now."
5975.txt:“We have 750 beds, but we can only use 115 because of cracks in the building,” Dr Rajesh Kishor Shrestha, of Nepal Medical College, said. ‘We are not able to run the operation table because there are multiple cracks. We are only running an emergency area.
5975.txt:“We need a tent for an operating room. We have asked the government but they haven’t provided. We have a large number of doctors but they are useless, they are not being used properly here. After some days there will be many people coming here from, but with these cracks, I’m not sure we can serve them.”
5989.txt:Nepal’s devastating earthquake last Saturday was both tragic and expected. On September 18, 2011, as colleagues and I were driving through Kathmandu, our car started to shake, buildings began to sway, store fronts cracked, hundreds of people jumped out of windows and streamed into already crowded streets. It was the so-called Sikkim earthquake. There were only a few fatalities and injuries — it was a very minor event compared to last weekend’s disaster. But it validated the rationale for our visit: to help launch a disaster relief dialogue involving U.S. government experts, Nepalese security forces, and their country’s emergency responders.
598.txt:FMCG firm Dabur said its factory building has developed cracks but there is no loss to life or property.
598.txt:"There has been no impact on our operations in Nepal because of the earthquake. The factory building has developed some cracks, but it will not impact operations. There is no loss of life or property," Dabur India Ltd spokesperson said.Beverages major Coca Cola India said it has temporarily halted its operations in Nepal a day after quake rattled the country."We can confirm that all our employees are both accounted for and safe. While our operations in Nepal were largely unaffected, we are temporarily halting our operations," Coca Cola India said in a statement.Coca Cola further said it is "currently working through the Coca-Cola system to provide water to the affected areas as soon as possible."Dabur also said that the company and its employees in Nepal are involved in relief operations there.ITC, which operates a subsidiary in Nepal, did not comment on the impact of earthquake on its operations in Nepal.However, an official said that there was no damage to the company's assets in the Himalayan nation.ITC's subsidiary in Nepal, Surya Nepal Private Ltd (SNPL), is an Indo-Nepal-UK joint venture and is the largest private sector enterprise in Nepal.SNPL is engaged in the business of cigarettes, safety matches and readymade garments in Nepal with a total turnover of over USD 175 million.Massive rescue and relief efforts were mounted by India and other neighbours in Nepal, as two powerful aftershocks today rattled the country, adding to the misery of yesterday's devastation in which the casualties soared to 2,200 people dead and over 5,600 others injured.
5993.txt:It’s no secret that Nepal is a staging ground for China’s continued crackdown on Tibet and its stuggle for autonomy. Local Nepalese authorities routinely intimidate Tibetan refugees since the violent suppression of a protest that broke out in the Tibetan capital, Lhasa, in 2008. The Tibetan community in Nepal–a population of about 18,000, live under surveillance by Chinese agents. Political protests are quelled before they hit the streets, religious and cultural assembly is shut down immediately. Members of the Tibetan community are recruited as spies with promises of financial reward (or threats to their families abroad).
6004.txt:Dutta has been sleeping in his home, which has some cracks in the wall, for two nights, but the dozens of small aftershocks that he has felt since Saturday’s huge quake make him uneasy. “I am worried about whether they will continue for a long time or whether it will calm down.”
6036.txt:The shift to recovery and relief flagged by the government means that the USAR teams will need to re-configure for the next phase: retrieving dead bodies and supporting government engineers in making structural surveys on cracked and damaged buildings.
6048.txt:Piia Wirsu was visiting Nepal as a tourist when the earthquake hit. She says a semblance of normality is slowly returning to Kathmandu, but she wonders if this city of cracked walls and leaning buildings will ever be the same again.
6048.txt:But it will be a quieter city that tries to assume normal life in this city of cracked walls and leaning buildings, which no one can fix. Over 400,000 people have left the valley of Kathmandu, driven by the fear of aftershocks, which continue to ripple across the city. There is also the fear of disease as streets pile with rubbish and 100 people use a single toilet as they continue to camp, sheltering like mice under tarps dripping in the rain.
6061.txt:The road to the Changu Narayan temple winds through the outskirts of Kathmandu, past villages, wheat fields and up through leafy woods. There is a village, now partly ruined, and then a steep walk up a narrow alley between broken homes to the temple’s shattered remains. From the piles of rubble which surround the cracked central shrine, the view extends across the entire Kathmandu valley.
6061.txt:Below lies Bhaktapur’s Durbar Square and palace, a medieval township preserved almost intact for centuries but now in ruins. Further away are the palaces of Patan, which are cracked or collapsed. In the far distance are scores of other monuments, most listed by Unesco as being of global importance and almost all badly damaged.
6061.txt:The sprawling complex, which covers the top of the hill and gleams in the low evening light, is covered in ornate wooden carvings and statuettes. Many are cracked or detached.
6066.txt:A glance up explained why: cracks zigzagged up the faces of the brick houses, tall, elegant structures with carved windows, some of which had toppled inward, crushing the people inside. Occasionally this week, residents would dash in to grab bags of rice or other supplies, but their fear was still so intense that they would not stop to talk.
6066.txt:Sitting on a curb on Yalachhen Street, in no hurry to go anywhere, was Kishor Rajbhandari, who sat gazing at the house that had belonged to his family for three generations. “This is my house,” he said. “It’s almost gone. Outside it looks all right, but inside, there are cracks in every corner. If the next 6.5 comes, it goes out.”
6067.txt:“When the earthquake hit, I was in a three-storey building in Kathmandu. We rushed to a nearby field. Though the building developed major cracks, it did not collapse,” said Bulu.
6075.txt:Khagendra Bhurtel, a senior civil engineer, said several people consulted him in the past few days. "It would be wise to take opinion of experts if there are structural cracks in the house. There is no need to consult anyone if there are no such defects. People can live inside their house without fear if no structural defects are seen," he said.
6075.txt:Many people whose houses have partially cracked are still unwilling to move into their house. Prabiti Magar of Siraha, who sells tea in Thamel, said she still doesn’t want to go back to her rented room. “The house is made of mud and bricks and there are several cracks in it,” she said.
6082.txt:Nepal reportedly declined Taiwan's offer of a search-and-rescue team shortly after the disaster, likely for fear of angering China. And Nepal's security forces frequently crack down on protests by the country's 20,000-odd Tibetan refugees, who fear China's growing influence in the country – influence Mr. Caron says is often "not terribly subtle." Many refugees who come across the Tibetan border with Nepal are now thought to be shunted down into India, which shelters the Dalai Lama and Tibet's government-in-exile in Dharamsala, much to China's dismay.
6139.txt:Members of the relief team after their return from Nepal. Picture by Pranab Kumar Das Guwahati, May 12: An earthquake measuring 7.3 on the Richter scale at 12.35pm and the subsequent aftershocks led to panic and many here rushed out of their homes for safety - a behaviour that disaster management experts have said is not advisable during a tremor. "People living in multi-storeyed buildings should not come out during a quake. Those inside their homes or offices should stay inside, drop, cover or hold onto sturdy furniture to reduce damage. If they can't get under furniture, move to an archway and sit with your back to the wall, bring your knees to your chest and cover the head. People should remain inside till the shaking subsides," said Jayanta Pathak, a professor of Assam Engineering College's civil engineering department here at Jalukbari. It is surprising to see people still coming out of their homes during today's tremor though the disaster management department has been advising against it to reduce damage during an earthquake, he wondered. Pathak, however, said those living in single-storeyed house could come out carefully. Men, women and children were seen taking the stairs and coming out of their buildings here, though the awareness campaigns through of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) advised people to remain indoors during an earthquake. "If the tremors are severe and they detect any crack on the walls, they should call an engineer to check the severity of the damage," Pathak said. Although people remained tense, the authority said no report of damage because of today's earthquake was reported so far. "We checked with our district disaster management control rooms but no such damage has been reported so far. But we have asked the deputy commissioner of Kamrup (metro) district to carry out a survey to find out if there is any damage during today's earthquake," ASDMA chief executive officer P.K. Tiwari told The Telegraph. "There is no such damage but we will carry out an assessment," Kamrup (metro) deputy commissioner M. Angamuthu said. In the evening, a thunder squall with wind speed exceeding 60km per hour, hit the city today. The department had also issued a warning about occurrence of heavy rain at isolated places over Assam and Meghalaya today and Wednesday. A thunder squall with wind speed exceeding 60km per hour was also predicted at isolated places over Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Nagaland, Mizoram and Tripura yesterday and today. However, the weather department said this thunder squall had no relation with the earthquake that shook the city today. "Occurrence of thunder squalls is a normal phenomenon during March, April and May in the northeastern region. The thunder squall was a local development that had occurred over Dhubri and then moved towards Guwahati. It has no relation with the earthquake that occurred during the day. There is probability of a storm occurring in isolated places of the northeastern states. In Meghalaya, a thunder squall has already occurred in Tura today," said an official of the Regional Meteorological Centre here at Borjhar. The army's medical relief team, which was sent to Nepal for medical aid to the quake victims, returned to Tezpur last evening after successfully completing its mission. Three teams from Indian Army Medical Corps were dispatched to Nepal on April 26. Lt Col Sombit Ghosh, the defence spokesperson based in Tezpur, said the teams included 4004 field hospital, 4 Corps, Tezpur, 4033 field hospital, 33 Corps, Sukhna, and 60 Parachute field hospital, Agra. "Each army team comprised 10 doctors, including a surgeon, orthopaedic, medical specialist and an anaesthetist and Col Alok D. Sen, commanding officer of 4004 field hospital, was designated as the team leader," he said. Additional reporting by Pranab Kumar Das & Barnali Handique
6160.txt:@RazAkkoc electricity is no more here in ktm,lot of cracked building due to many aftershock and major shock is no more now,all collapsed — Sanam Pathak (@Desh_0_Premi) May 12, 2015
6163.txt:According to witnesses, the damage in Sindhupalchok is widespread, including roads having been cut by high stones and cracked.
6174.txt:Suddenly the home started swaying violently and cracks started to appear on the walls. Sonia ran outside, but realised that her brother was still inside. She returned, picked up her brother and started running outside. But the house had started to crumble by then, and she could not move her trapped feet. She held her brother tightly against her chest.
6180.txt:After a couple of hours the goods were delivered, and Dipak took me past the landslide to see his home, which sits on a small plateau facing southeast. The ridge above the plateau was striped with white slashes that looked to be about a quarter mile long and a hundred yards wide: more landslides. The one directly above his home hadn’t come down all the way yet. The monsoons would arrive in a month, threatening to turn the loose rock and soil to mudslides. Cracks in the earth were visible everywhere. “What do we do?” Dipak asked. “It’s not safe here.”
6180.txt:We went to see Dipak’s family. His father, mother, grandmother, and brother stood in a sturdy makeshift structure of wood and corrugated metal. Shunita, a beautiful woman in her twenties, sat at a small nearby shelter, cooking dal bhat. Dipak too had received one bag of rice for his family of 14, but he insisted on feeding all the volunteers. “Now we eat,” he said, cracking a huge smile. “Eat!”
6184.txt:“I am very scared and I am with my two sons. The school building is cracked and bits of it, I can see they have collapsed,” said Rhita Doma Sherpa, a nurse with the Mountain Medicine Center in Namche Bazaar, a departure point for trekkers headed to Everest.
6184.txt:In Lukla, the departure point for treks to Everest, buildings cracked and small landslides were triggered when the ground shook.
6193.txt:Most of the cracked buildings, including houses, government offices and schools, have been badly destroyed by the latest quake.
6197.txt:“Even those houses that have not been flattened have developed cracks. People are too afraid to go into them. We are still feeling the aftershocks that make people terrified.”
6203.txt:Ale said houses that remained standing started to develop cracks, and people did not want to stay inside them. The area is still affected experiencing aftershocks.
6211.txt:An unconvincing and unauthoritative barrier of stones and wires are tangled around a thick bamboo pole lying across part of the road. Rita steps over them boldly. So Sukanya and I follow, leaving a cluster of men among onlookers we’ll pass along the next 200 meters staring at the devastation across the street. A crushed taxi is motionless by the curb and heaps of bricks flank the cleared path we now enter. Frankly I’m ready to turn back, but Rita has her assignment. Confidently she points out corner pillars—“there, up, up further, through that passage there—see, see those cracks at the base, see up the walls, this building, that one too.” Open windows expose limp curtains protecting nothing inside. No posting is needed to tell us all of them are vacant, and although these facades show little evidence of damage beyond those menacing cracks, all these four-story structures are either condemned (red code) or dangerous (orange). Don’t go further, says one bystander. But Rita presses on.
6212.txt:Politicians in parliament fled from their seats. In remote villages, houses that already were wobbling collapsed completely. Mountains cracked and slid.
6217.txt:In many districts, hospitals and health centres have been flattened, and those still standing have numerous cracks, making them susceptible to collapse. Bhaktapur hospital received a mass influx of wounded people after the second earthquake, prompting MSF to donate dressing kits and medicine.
6217.txt:“My house was cracked in the first earthquake; the second earthquake finished it. I’m broken, I have lost my property and my cattle are no more, but I’m happy that my family was not in the house when this happened. They were in a displacement camp for fear of the house collapsing. And they were right,” said Rajkumar Pakhrin, MSF’s administration assistant from Mirge village in Dolakha District.
6221.txt:Nepal Police spokesperson Kamal Singh Bam said the houses that collapsed on Tuesday were cracked by earlier tremors. “We have enough resource for search and rescue in the Valley but we cannot say that about other districts,” said Bam. People were not trapped in Kathmandu Valley.
6224.txt:“Even those houses that have not been flattened have developed cracks. People are too afraid to go into them. We are still feeling the aftershocks that makes people terrified.”
6228.txt:A woman points towards cracks on the wall of the Bir Hospital that appeared after Tuesday¿s earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, Wednesday, May 13, 2015. Thousands of fear-stricken people spent the night outdoors after a new earthquake killed dozens of people and spread more misery in Nepal, which is still reeling from a devastating quake that killed thousands nearly three weeks ago. (AP Photo/Bikram Rai)
6228.txt:A crack runs across the wall of the Bir Hospital that appeared after Tuesday¿s earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, Wednesday, May 13, 2015. Thousands of fear-stricken people spent the night outdoors after a new earthquake killed dozens of people and spread more misery in Nepal, which is still reeling from a devastating quake that killed thousands nearly three weeks ago. (AP Photo/Bikram Rai)
6231.txt:Most buildings of hotels including Motherland, United, Cho-Rolpa, Image, Kings and Chilankha are on the verge of collapse. The quake has affected most of the buildings located in Charighyang and Saatdobato. Major roads linked with the district headquarters have got cracks.
6241.txt:Scanning their images of cracks and more damage to buildings, it became apparent another quake had rocked the Himalayan kingdom of Nepal.
6265.txt:KATHMANDU/PATNA: There was panic in Kathmandu, which bore the brunt of the massive April 25 earthquake, as people rushed out of their homes onto the streets. People held each other as they ran for safety, crying and making desperate calls to their near ones in Kathmandu. On many roads, people stopped their vehicles midway to run for cover.Fear gripped Nepal's Parliament too. Members fled as the Parliament building shook when Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist Leninist) representative Vishnu Poudel was speaking on the rehabilitation of the survivors of the earlier earthquake."It was very scary. The ground shook violently," Reena Shrestha told TOI. Her house at Teku in Kathmandu had developed cracks at many places on April 25. "This time the cracks have widened," she said. Her father-in-law, Janakman, who had survived the 1934 earthquake that was stronger than the last two ones, too, was out in the lawn."Most of the damage has taken place in Sindhupalchowk and Dolakha districts," said Laxmi Prasad Dhakal, Nepal's home ministry spokesperson. Kodari is located in Sindhupalchowk district, where the maximum deaths took place in last month's earthquake.Reports said houses and shops had collapsed in Charikot and Sunkhani (both in Dolakha district), Chautara (Sindhupalchowk district) and Salleri and Namche (both in Solokhumbhu district), which lies at the foot of Everest. Incidents of house and wall collapse were reported from Sallaghari in Bhaktapur, an ancient city 10km east of Kathmandu, Teku and Sitapaila in the Nepalese capital. The serial tremors triggered landslides at three places in Sindhupalchowk, through which the Araniko Rajmarg connecting Kathmandu with Tibet passes.Reports said the impact of the earthquake was felt in Tibet's Jilong and Zhangmu regions as well as Lhasa. In the April 25 earthquake, around 25 people had died on the Tibetan side of the border, where Chinese doctors had treated many injured Nepalese.After an emergency meeting, Nepal's Prime Minister Sushil Koirala told the media, "We must maintain our calm and face the disaster together." Home minister Bamdev Gautam added, "Twenty districts have been hit this time."
6272.txt:The group had to cross this swing bridge showing cracks at its base
6275.txt:Cracked buildings collapsed in a heap of debris and landslides cut off roads as an earthquake measuring 7.3 on the Richter scale hit Nepal, with its epicentre not far from Mount Everest -- the world's highest peak at 8,850 metres.
6280.txt:"I am very scared and I am with my two sons. The school building is cracked and bits of it, I can see they have collapsed," said Rhita Doma Sherpa, a nurse with the Mountain Medicine Centre in Namche Bazaar, a departure point for trekkers headed to Everest.
6280.txt:In Lukla, the departure point for treks to Everest, buildings cracked and small landslides were triggered when the ground shook. At least three schoolchildren were injured.
6282.txt:"I am very scared and I am with my two sons. The school building is cracked and bits of it, I can see they have collapsed," said Rhita Doma Sherpa, a nurse with the Mountain Medicine Center in Namche Bazaar, a departure point for trekkers headed to Everest.
6282.txt:In Lukla, the departure point for treks to Everest, buildings cracked and small landslides were triggered when the ground shook. At least three schoolchildren were injured.
6294.txt:"I am very scared and I am with my two sons. The school building is cracked and bits of it, I can see they have collapsed," said Rhita Doma Sherpa, a nurse with the Mountain Medicine Center in Namche Bazaar, a departure point for trekkers headed to Everest.
6294.txt:In Lukla, the departure point for treks to Everest, buildings cracked and small landslides were triggered when the ground shook. At least three schoolchildren were injured.
6302.txt:The Indian nonprofit Rashtra Seva Dal, which works in Bihar, said that 12 people died in the state’s Darbhanga district, which borders Nepal. Cracks that had appeared in houses from the April 25 quake have widened, and more now seem on the verge of collapsing, aid workers said.
6313.txt:Amid the ramshackle remains of homes, temples and government offices, many people are concerned that the cracked, fragile buildings that remain will not be able to survive the floods and mudslides of monsoon season.
6319.txt:NEW DELHI — A powerful earthquake shook eastern Nepal on Tuesday, shattering the halting recovery from the earthquake that hit the country less than three weeks ago, and causing loose hillsides and cracked buildings to give way and collapse.
6319.txt:Residents and office workers ran screaming into the streets when the temblor struck, shortly after noon, and people described mud and clouds of dust rising up as cracked structures fell. Prakash Banjara, an engineering student, was on an aid mission with 15 other students, delivering rice to remote villages in Sindhupalchowk district, when “the earth started shaking so violently.”
6319.txt:Since the April 25 quake, people across Nepal have feared another powerful earthquake, in part because the first one left many buildings unstable, and many people refused to sleep indoors for more than a week. A vast number of buildings appear too dangerous even to enter, with ground floors buckling outward and deep cracks running up their facades. There have also been a number of aftershocks and minor quakes.
6320.txt:Rhita Doma Sherpa, a nurse, said the building where her two sons go to school was visibly cracked – and parts had collapsed.
6324.txt:"Even those houses that have not been flattened have developed cracks. People are too afraid to go into them," said Aula Bahadur Ale, assistant district administrator of Dolakha district.
6332.txt:Most of the cracked buildings, including houses, government offices and schools, have been badly destroyed by the latest quake.
6334.txt:Roads in Dolakha were cracked and littered with large boulders, a witness said. In the village of Suspa Kshamawati, 80 per cent of the houses were destroyed.
6334.txt:"Even those houses that have not been flattened have developed cracks. People are too afraid to go into them. We are still feeling the aftershocks that makes people terrified."
6337.txt:Reuters – Hundreds of Nepali troops were searching for a missing U.S. Marines helicopter with eight people on board on Wednesday, a day after the second powerful earthquake in less than three weeks killed scores and sent panicked residents into the street. The Himalayan nation is still reeling from a devastating quake measuring 7.8 last month that killed more than 8,000 people and injured close to 20,000. The U.S. helicopter was delivering aid in Dolakha, one of the hardest-hit areas from the April 25 quake, on Tuesday when it went missing with six Marines and two Nepali troops on board. The Marine Corps UH-1Y Huey helicopter lost radio contact after its crew was heard talking about fuel problems. Related Articles U.S. chopper hits U.S. Humvee 04/13/08 WikiLeaks founder solicited U.S. secrets 06/11/13 A Nepali military official said it appeared the helicopter might have come down in one of the rivers that snake through valleys in the district of Dolakha east of the capital, Kathmandu. Six other helicopters joined hundreds of ground troops in the search for the missing aircraft. "The info we have is that it is down in one of the rivers, but none of the choppers has seen it yet," Major Rajan Dahal, second-in-command of the Barda Bahadur Battalion, told Reuters in the district capital, Charikot. "There are 400-plus of our ground troops looking for it also. By this evening, we might get it," he said. Nepal Home Ministry official Laxmi Prasad Dhal said no trace of the missing helicopter had been found but she feared the search was diverting resources from relief and rescue work. "The work of sending relief and rescuing the injured people to hospitals has been delayed due to this," she told Reuters. Tuesday's 7.3 quake killed 67 people and destroyed swaths of housing in the area. Charikot, about 75 km (45 miles) east of Kathmandu, was one of the hardest-hit areas. Most of the fatalities reported from Tuesday's quake were in towns and villages like Charikot, which were only just beginning to pick up the pieces from last month's quake. Tuesday's quake and subsequent aftershocks forced many panic-stricken Nepalis to spend yet another night outdoors in makeshift tents and relief camps. Aula Bahadur Ale, the assistant administrator of the district, said there were 36 dead in Charikot and surrounding areas and 106 injured. "It looks like a graveyard here," Ale said. "Even those houses that have not been flattened have developed cracks. People are too afraid to go into them. We are still feeling the aftershocks that make people terrified." A police official in Kathmandu said 1,928 people had been injured in Tuesday's quake, which also killed 17 people in neighboring India. The April quake destroyed hundreds of thousands of buildings, including many ancient temples, and triggered an avalanche on Mount Everest that killed 18 climbers and cut short the climbing season on the world's tallest peak. The tremors have left areas of Nepal perilously unstable, leading to fears of more landslides, especially when seasonal monsoon rains begin to fall in the coming weeks. In Kathmandu, most open spaces such as private land and pavements were occupied by residents who set up yellow, blue and white tarpaulin sheets. Kathmandu resident Sita Gurung said her newly built house had escaped damage but she still did not want to go back. "How can I take risk and stay in? Every one has come out and is living in the open," Gurung said. "I better join them and stay safe." While you were sleeping, this also happened
6339.txt:Recently, Hamas has been cracking down on the growing number of Islamic State-inspired extremist Salafi groups in Gaza. These groups seeks to replace Hamas and install an Islamic Caliphate in the Palestinian coastal enclave; ironically, they view Hamas as being too soft on Israel and failing to install Sharia law.
6342.txt:Cracked buildings collapsed in a heap of debris and landslides cut off roads as an earthquake measuring 7.3 on the Richter scale hit Nepal, with its epicentre not far from Mount Everest - the world's highest peak at 8,848 metres.
6343.txt:"His monastery has been damaged, they slept outside for a week. There are cracks running up the sides of the dormitories and everything. It's just sad about Nepal, it's devastation. Lama Zopa put out a directive on how we could best help and put in our energy and prayers."
6356.txt:"I am very scared and I am with my two sons. The school building is cracked and bits of it, I can see they have collapsed," said Rhita Doma Sherpa, a nurse with the Mountain Medicine Centre in Namche Bazaar, a departure point for trekkers headed to Everest.
6356.txt:In Lukla, the departure point for treks to Everest, buildings cracked and small landslides were triggered when the ground shook. At least three schoolchildren were injured.
6358.txt:Most of the cracked houses in Chautara collapsed and some 300 people have been injured in the latest quake, a police officer said.
6361.txt:He continued: “From where I am standing, I can see cracks in several buildings and there is a real fear of buildings collapsing." “We are working as best we can to establish the level of damage, injuries and potential loss of life here in the capital and elsewhere.”
6362.txt:He continued: “From where I am standing, I can see cracks in several buildings and there is a real fear of buildings collapsing." “We are working as best we can to establish the level of damage, injuries and potential loss of life here in the capital and elsewhere.”
6363.txt:Rhita Doma Sherpa, a nurse, said the building where her two sons go to school was visibly cracked - and parts had collapsed.
6398.txt:“A lot of houses that weren’t collapsed…leaning sideways, just cracked, this one just helped to put it down on the ground,” said Kapri.
6405.txt:Plans to fly the dismantled Chinooks to Nepal in transporter aircraft were first announced on 30 April. But Nepalese authorities were forced to close the international airport in Kathmandu after cracks appeared in the runway, forcing the UK to divert the helicopters to Delhi for reassembly.
6406.txt:“Retrofitting against earthquakes was the best decision that I took as headmaster of this school,” said Jeetandra Lal Shrestha, former headmaster at Bhagwati Higher Secondary School in Sankhu, northwest of Kathmandu Valley. “I have checked many times and there is not even a crack in the school building. Around 300 people took shelter in this school after the quake. The earthquake occurred on a Saturday, but I am confident the children of this school would be safe even if it had happened on a school day,” he added. Tika Ram Timisina, headmaster of Tri Padmadaya School in Lalitpur District, south Kathmandu, said “Our school building is intact. We gave shelter to around 500 students, parents and teachers, and the community at large in our school after the quake. Now everyone knows the importance of safe buildings.”
6411.txt:“During the first earthquake, the house was left with cracks. But the second earthquake left the house destroyed.”
6411.txt:“I helped send money to build that house. And I had a new one built as well. But the quake destroyed both. My sister just called saying they got out of their house and it’s full of cracks, too.”
6411.txt:Vim Aryal, Gurung’s colleague, said they’re lucky their house survived with just a few cracks in it. But no one knows for sure how safe it is to live in.
6411.txt:“There are cracks in the walls but it should be safe. It’s getting very frustrating. You want to do more to help but you can’t.”
6426.txt:“I am very scared. I am with my two sons. The school building is cracked and bits of it, I can see they have collapsed,” said Rhita Doma Sherpa, a nurse with the Mountain Medicine Centre in Namche Bazaar, a departure point for trekkers headed to Everest.
6426.txt:In Lukla, the departure point for treks to Everest, buildings cracked and small landslides were triggered when the ground shook. At least three school children were injured.
6432.txt:Montana DOJ unveils new program to crack down on organized crime in Montana Evidence from MHP Adjudicated Cases $1.5 million of stolen goods. (photo credit: Montana Highway Patrol) Wednesday, October 18, 2017 4:09 PM EDT Updated: A new Montana Department of Justice program has hit the streets aimed at cracking down on organized crime. More>>
6452.txt:He continued: “From where I am standing, I can see cracks in several buildings and there is a real fear of buildings collapsing." “We are working as best we can to establish the level of damage, injuries and potential loss of life here in the capital and elsewhere.”
6463.txt:"People are very scared and they don't know what is going on," said CNN iReporter Prashup Rajbhandari in Kathmandu. He said he thought the quake had cracked his house.
6466.txt:Cracked buildings collapsed in a heap of debris and landslides cut off roads as an earthquake measuring 7.3 on the Richter scale hit Nepal, with its epicentre not far from Mount Everest -- the world's highest peak at 8,848 metres.
6487.txt:The terrified mother who gave birth as the Nepal earthquake struck - 'I watched cracks appear in hospital walls and patients run for their lives'
6487.txt:Asha Shrestha was in labour when the earthquake hit, causing cracks in the walls of the Kathmandu maternity unit
6487.txt:A terrified mother watched cracks appear in the walls of a Kathmandu maternity unit and felt the ground shake beneath her feet as a massive earthquake struck Nepal while she was in labour.
6487.txt:'Doctors were ready with a syringe, when the earthquake started,' said relative Eta Laxmi, 29, who was waiting nearby. 'I got very scared. We only had 10 minutes left till the surgery officially started and the walls started cracking around me.'
6487.txt:'Many houses in the villages here had already been destroyed by the last earthquake, but we saw one that had only been cracked collapse. Across Nepal, a lot of houses which were already partially damaged could fall down,' she added.
6491.txt:“People are very scared and they don’t know what is going on,” said CNN iReporter Prashup Rajbhandari in Kathmandu. He said he thought the quake had cracked his house.
6491.txt:Sabin Shrestha, a social activist in a village on the outskirts of Kathmandu, said dozens of houses around him that had suffered cracks in the last earthquake came down.
6496.txt:A nurse in Namche Bazaar, Rhita Doma Sherpa, told Reuters: "The school building is cracked and bits of it, I can see, they have collapsed. It was lunchtime. All the kids were outside."
6499.txt:Rhita Doma Sherpa, a nurse with the Mountain Medicine Center in Namche Bazaar near the quake’s epicentre, said the quake caused cracks in several buildings, including a school, but she had not seen major damage.
6506.txt:She said there were reports of "chaos" in the streets and buildings that previously had cracks had now collapsed.
6508.txt:Cracked buildings collapsed in a heap of debris and landslides cut off roads as an earthquake measuring 7.3 on the Richter scale hit Nepal, with its epicentre not far from Mount Everest -- the world's highest peak at 8,848 m.
6514.txt:In Lukla, the departure point for treks to Everest, buildings cracked and small landslides were triggered when the ground shook.
6526.txt:"I am very scared and I am with my two sons. The school building is cracked and bits of it, I can see they have collapsed," said Rhita Doma Sherpa, a nurse with the Mountain Medicine Center in Namche Bazaar, a departure point for trekkers headed to Everest.
6526.txt:In Lukla, the departure point for treks to Everest, buildings cracked and small landslides were triggered when the ground shook.
652.txt:Shillong/ Imphal/ Aizawl/ Agartala: The impact of the earthquake that hit Nepal was felt right up to the Patkai Hills that border Myanmar. The seven states felt strong tremors, but did not report any major damage to life or property.Buildings developed cracks and people rushed out of their houses as strong tremors shook Assam's Brahmaputra Valley. The circuit house in Majuli, Asia's biggest river island, showed major cracks. Electric poles bent under the force of the quake in Majuli and Chaygaon.Kamrup (Metro) DC M Angamuthu, who is also the head of the Guwahati disaster management authority, said state officials are on the field to assess the damage..People ran out of their houses in Guwahati as tremors were felt for about two minutes. "Initially, I stayed inside my room. When the tremors continued, I rushed out," said Haloi, a caretaker of an apartment in Guwahati. Chief minister Tarun Gogoi has directed the chief secretary to assess the extent of damage in the state.At well over 7 on the Richter scale, the tremors shook Meghalaya for almost a minute. People ran out of their houses and office buildings. Meghalaya is situated in seismic activity Zone V; the highest on the seismic scale."We were scared as our office building is old. We were spared major damage," said an employee of the state government. An officer in the state police department said there was no information of any loss of life. He added that damages caused to property, if any, would be ascertained in about a day.People panicked in Aizawl and other parts of Mizoram as tremors were felt across the state. Lalrinkimi of the Khatla locality in Aizawl said she ran outside her house as it began shaking. She said the tremors left her dizzy and nauseated.The tremors shook Manipur, too. The busy Paona Bazaar and Thangal Bazaar areas of Imphal saw chaos as people — both residents and shoppers — rushed for safety. The walls of a government school at Wangkhei in Imphal East developed cracks. Students and teachers of the school moved out onto the grounds.Tripura, too, felt the tremors but did not report loss of life or damage to property, said state disaster management unit in-charge and deputy secretary (revenue) Shankar Chakraborty. Due to massive campaigning by disaster response groups at the community level, there was not much panic either, he added.The earthquake was also felt in Arunachal and Nagaland.
6531.txt:Montana DOJ unveils new program to crack down on organized crime in Montana Evidence from MHP Adjudicated Cases $1.5 million of stolen goods. (photo credit: Montana Highway Patrol) Wednesday, October 18, 2017 4:09 PM EDT Updated: A new Montana Department of Justice program has hit the streets aimed at cracking down on organized crime. More>>
6543.txt:"In the beginning, I thought it was just another small aftershock, but when I saw things on the table start to fall, I realized how powerful it is. I'm so scared and worried about people living in cracked houses," she said.
6551.txt:"I thought the buildings were going to collapse all around us and on top of us, fortunately they did not. That school, which we had already seen major cracks in, is still standing but we have given it a red flag which means no child will enter that school whatsoever."
6557.txt:“It’s been raining every night here for the past four or five days, and that has loosened a lot of the earth on these very sheer mountain areas where the earthquake struck," she says. "There are massive cracks in the mountains from the earthquake.”
6557.txt:One man, she says, called the program today to thank Lifeline for advising him to stay away from his family's house, which had a big crack following the first earthquake.
6566.txt:The two nations conducted joint assessments for three nights prior to the repairs by evaluating 20 critical areas along the entire 9,500-foot runway. They conducted visual assessments by evaluating for cracks, potholes or ruts to ensure damage would not hinder operations or impact aircraft. They also accomplished a runway bearing capacity investigation to determine its strength by drilling in the pavement and testing the soil up to 4 feet below the surface.
6568.txt:It was like a movie scene, Mr Kohlenberg said. "The road started cracking in front of us and continued to crack all the way up the road.
6574.txt:“People are panicking. It’s not as big as the last one but since a lot of houses and buildings are cracked and tilted, it can be dangerous for people around those areas.”
6578.txt:And only hours ago, as I sat in the departures lounge of the Kathmandu airport, with rainwater from a thunderstorm streaming through the ceiling and ever watchful for news of yet another closure due to cracks in the runway, I struggle to find the words to describe the effects of the first earthquake.
6597.txt:In Lukla, the departure point for treks to Everest, buildings cracked and small landslides were triggered when the ground shook.
6597.txt:Rhita Doma Sherpa, a nurse with the Mountain Medicine Center in Namche Bazaar, near the epicentre, said the quake caused cracks in several buildings, including a school, but she had not seen major damage.
6610.txt:(Left)A crack on the outer surface of the Shahid Minar after the earthquake on Tuesday afternoon. (Right) A damaged wall of Block B at Writersâ Buildings, which is to be demolished as part of the renovation project (Amit Datta) The temblor on Tuesday has inflicted more damage on Calcutta than the stronger one on April 25 that left Nepal devastated. Engineers reported cracks on two iconic structures, Writers' Buildings and the Shahid Minar, after the 12.36pm earthquake that was followed by an aftershock at 1.06pm. Officials of the public works department said a hairline crack that had appeared on a pillar of the Shahid Minar on April 25 was found to have "widened significantly" following Tuesday's jolt. A second crack was noticed on the outer surface of the monument that is part of the heritage zone in the heart of the city. At Writers', cracks appeared on a pillar on the top floor of Block B, opposite the Calcutta Stock Exchange. A second crack was spotted on a wall of the same block. The top floor used to house the office of the agriculture department before it was shifted to Jessop Building. "The cracks in both the structures are signs of structural damage... As far as the Shahid Minar is concerned, immediate renovation would be taken up. At Writers', the entire block is to be demolished anyway as part of the ongoing renovation," a PWD engineer said. Designed by Thomas Lyon in 1777, Writers' Buildings has added several blocks over the decades. According to senior government officials, Block B came up after Independence. The renovation of Writers' started in October 2013 and the state secretariat shifted to Nabanna, across the Hooghly. The project had been long overdue, especially in the light of warnings from engineers that Bengal's seat of power had turned into a tinderbox because of blocks being added to the main structure post-Independence. The inspection report also mentioned that the superstructure had become vulnerable to earthquakes because of additional load being put on it in the form of extensions. "It is now clear that the decision to renovate Writers' Buildings was the right one.... Had there been offices at Writers' now, the earthquake-inflicted damage to the structure might have been severe because more the number of offices, greater the load," an expert in structural safety said. According to the renovation plan, finalised during a recent meeting chaired by home secretary Basudeb Banerjee, all blocks added to the structure post-1945 will be pulled down. "It means blocks A, B, C, D, E, F, G and CGA are to be demolished. This will help the structure shed the extra load put on it in the name of creating more office space," a senior government official said. While nothing extra needs to be done at Writers' as of now, the PWD is worried about the hairline crack on a pillar of the Shahid Minar. "This pillar is crucial to the stability of the staircase within the 48-metre-tall structure. This is seen to be considerable structural damage and we have to renovate it at the earliest. A report has already been prepared and renovation will be taken up soon," the official said. The monument, built in 1828 in memory of Major General Sir David Ochterlony, commander of the British East India Company, had undergone renovation in 2012. Entry into the Shahid Minar was restricted after a tourist jumped from the top in 1997. Since 2012, when the last round of renovation was carried out, nobody is allowed inside. One of the keys to the interior of the structure is with the PWD and the other with Lalbazar, the city police headquarters. "We visited the structure after Tuesday's tremor and found that the crack that had developed during the April 25 earthquake had grown wider. A fresh crack has appeared on the outer wall and that is cause for concern. We have sent a report to the government," said an engineer in the inspection team. There had been rumours of damage to several vital installations in Calcutta after the earthquake last month, prompting the PWD to carry out a series of inspections. At Nabanna, Tuesday's tremor did not cause any harm except causing panic as the 15-storey building swayed for several seconds. Finance minister Amit Mitra and agriculture minister Purnendu Basu were among the first to exit their offices on the 12th and 3rd floors respectively. Senior officials followed suit and stayed put in the courtyard for nearly 40 minutes after the earthquake, which measured 7.3 on the Richter scale at its epicentre in Nepal.
6617.txt:“I am very scared and I am with my two sons. The school building is cracked and bits of it, I can see they have collapsed,” said Rhita Doma Sherpa, a nurse with the Mountain Medicine Centre in Namche Bazaar, a departure point for trekkers headed to Everest.
6617.txt:In Lukla, the official departure point for treks to Everest, buildings cracked and small landslides were triggered when the ground shook. At least three school children were injured.
6618.txt:“I am very scared and I am with my two sons. The school building is cracked and bits of it, I can see they have collapsed,” said Rhita Doma Sherpa, a nurse with the Mountain Medicine Centre in Namche Bazaar, a departure point for trekkers headed to Everest.
6618.txt:In Lukla, the departure point for treks to Everest, buildings cracked and small landslides were triggered when the ground shook. At least three school children were injured.
6628.txt:Cracked buildings collapsed in a heap of debris and landslides cut off roads as an earthquake measuring 7.3 on the Richter scale hit Nepal, with its epicentre not far from Mount Everest -- the world's highest peak at 8,850 metres.
6628.txt:Dozens of cracked buildings collapse
6628.txt:Dozens of buildings which had developed cracks in the April 25 temblor collapsed on Tuesday when another major earthquake shook the country.
6629.txt:“I am very scared and I am with my two sons. The school building is cracked and bits of it, I can see they have collapsed,” said Rhita Doma Sherpa, a nurse with the Mountain Medicine Center in Namche Bazaar, a departure point for trekkers headed to Everest.
6629.txt:In Lukla, the departure point for treks to Everest, buildings cracked and small landslides were triggered when the ground shook.
6630.txt:CNN iReporter Prashup Rajbhandar initially huddled with loved ones as his four-story house swung back and forth, before rushing outside. Now, fearing a crack in his house, he’s not sure if he’ll ever go back home — instead making do by cooking on his lawn and sleeping in cars.
6630.txt:Sabin Shrestha, a social activist, saw people run toward the hills in a village on the capital’s outskirts as fresh cracks appeared in dozens of houses.
6631.txt:Read: Nepal earthquake: Dozens of cracked buildings collapse
6631.txt:According to state disaster management department officials here, there were reports of cracks in several houses in Jehanabad, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Patna, Gaya, and Raxaul in East Champaran district.
6639.txt:According to state disaster management department officials here, there were reports of cracks in several houses in Jehanabad, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Patna, Gaya, and Raxaul in East Champaran district.
6640.txt:Cracked buildings collapsed in a heap of debris and landslides cut off roads as an earthquake measuring 7.3 on the Richter scale hit Nepal, with its epicentre not far from Mount Everest — the world’s highest peak at 8,850 metres.
6645.txt:Many of those cracked buildings being held up with flimsy pieces of wood have most likely collapsed and caused even further damage.
6647.txt:CNN iReporter Prashup Rajbhandar initially huddled with loved ones as his four-story house swung back and forth, before rushing outside. Now, fearing a crack in his house, he’s not sure if he’ll ever go back home — instead making do by cooking on his lawn and sleeping in cars.
6647.txt:Sabin Shrestha, a social activist, saw people run toward the hills in a village on the capital’s outskirts as fresh cracks appeared in dozens of houses.
6649.txt:“I am very scared and I am with my two sons. The school building is cracked and bits of it, I can see they have collapsed,” said Rhita Doma Sherpa, a nurse with the Mountain Medicine Center in Namche Bazaar, a departure point for trekkers headed to Everest.
6649.txt:In Lukla, the departure point for treks to Everest, buildings cracked and small landslides were triggered when the ground shook.
6652.txt:"I am very scared and I am with my two sons. The school building is cracked and bits of it, I can see they have collapsed," said Rhita Doma Sherpa, a nurse with the Mountain Medicine Centre in Namche Bazaar, a departure point for trekkers headed to Everest.
6652.txt:In Lukla, the departure point for treks to Everest, buildings cracked and small landslides were triggered when the ground shook. At least three schoolchildren were injured.
6655.txt:A nurse in Namche Bazaar, Rhita Doma Sherpa, told Reuters: "The school building is cracked and bits of it, I can see, they have collapsed. It was lunchtime. All the kids were outside."
6663.txt:Uttam Kapri, who runs the Mi Casa hotel in Thamel, Kathmandu, said, "First there was a jolt. Then I felt I was being swayed from side to side. I immediately ran out to the street." Mi Casa developed a crack after the fresh tremor.
6669.txt:Most of the cracked houses in Chautara collapsed and some 300 people have been injured in the latest quake, a police officer said.
6676.txt:In Lukla, the departure point for treks to Everest, buildings cracked and small landslides were triggered when the ground shook.
6676.txt:Rhita Doma Sherpa, a nurse with the Mountain Medicine Center in Namche Bazaar, near the epicentre, said the quake caused cracks in several buildings, including a school, but she had not seen major damage.
6683.txt:“I am very scared and I am with my two sons. The school building is cracked and bits of it, I can see they have collapsed,” said Rhita Doma Sherpa, a nurse with the Mountain Medicine Center in Namche Bazaar, a departure point for trekkers headed to Everest.
6683.txt:In Lukla, the departure point for treks to Everest, buildings cracked and small landslides were triggered when the ground shook.
6684.txt:He continued: “From where I am standing, I can see cracks in several buildings and there is a real fear of buildings collapsing." “We are working as best we can to establish the level of damage, injuries and potential loss of life here in the capital and elsewhere.”
6685.txt:Rhita Doma Sherpa, a nurse, said the building where her two sons go to school was visibly cracked - and parts had collapsed.
6691.txt:He continued: “From where I am standing, I can see cracks in several buildings and there is a real fear of buildings collapsing."
6694.txt:KATHMANDU/PATNA: Death and destruction revisited Nepal and Bihar on Tuesday when a powerful 7.3- magnitude earthquake violently shook the landmass on either side of Mount Everest, stretching to Lhasa isthe north and Dhaka in the south.It came 17 days after a 7.9-magnitude earthquake devastated large swathes of Nepal and parts of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, the Himalayan nation's closest neighbours. Until now, 8,034 people have been reported dead as a result of the first temblor in Nepal, which has just begun rebuilding from the ruins.Preliminary reports said Tuesday's quake killed 57 people in Nepal while more than 1,100 were injured. The toll may go up, with massive devastation being reported from remote areas close to Tibet.In Patna, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said, "We have received reports of the death of 15 people, six of which have been confirmed." Large-scale destruction has been reported from Darbhanga, Sitamarhi, East and West Champaran, Araria, Supaul, Sheohar, Purnia, Siwan and Patna.The US Geological Survey said the 7.3-earthquake, which shook Nepal at 12.50pm (local time) was epicentred at 18km from Kodari, a rural settlement close 80km east of Kathmandu and close to Tibet. There were at least five major aftershocks, one of which had its epicentre at Ramechhap, further east of Kodari.In Kathmandu, which bore the brunt of the April 25 earthquake, people rushed out of their homes into open spaces and streets. They held each other as they ran for safety, crying and making desperate calls to their near ones. On many roads, people stopped their vehicles midway to run for cover.Fear gripped Nepal's Parliament too. Members fled as the building shook when Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist Leninist) representative Vishnu Poudel was speaking on the rehabilitation of the survivors of the earlier earthquake."It was very scary. The ground shook violently," Reena Shrestha told TOI. Her house at Teku in Kathmandu had developed cracks at many places on April 25. "This time the cracks have widened," she said. Her father-in-law, Janakman, who had survived the 1934 earthquake that was stronger than the last two ones, too, was out in the lawn."Most of the damage has taken place in Sindhupalchowk and Dolakha districts," said Laxmi Prasad Dhakal, Nepal's home ministry spokesperson. Kodari is located in Sindhupalchowk , where the maximum deaths took place in last month's earthquake.Reports said houses and shops had collapsed in Charikot and Sunkhani (both in Dolakha ), Chautara (Sindhupalchowk ) and Salleri and Namche (Solokhumbhu district), which lies at the foot of Everest. Incidents of house and wall collapse were reported from Sallaghari in Bhaktapur, an ancient city 10km east of Kathmandu, Teku and Sitapaila in the Nepalese capital. The serial tremors triggered landslides at three places in Sindhupalchowk, through which the Araniko Rajmarg connecting Kathmandu with Tibet passes.Reports said the impact of the earthquake was felt in Tibet's Jilong and Zhangmu regions as well as Lhasa. In the April 25 earthquake, around 25 people had died on the Tibetan side of the border, where Chinese doctors had treated many injured Nepalese.After an emergency meeting, Nepal's Prime Minister Sushil Koirala told the media, "We must maintain our calm and face the disaster together." Home minister Bamdev Gautam added, "Twenty districts have been hit this time."
66.txt:Agra: Tremors of an earthquake that jolted Nepal was felt in the city on Saturday afternoon. Although there have been no loss of human lives, a dilapidated water tank in Etamad-ud-Daula area collapsed and a few buildings in the older part of the city reportedly developed cracks.Almost half-a-dozen aftershocks which were felt in the city between 11.45am and 3.30pm also resulted in a cement canopy come crashing down on a vehicle parked in the S N Medical College premises.Taj Mahal bore the brunt of the quake as well, but no damage was reported as a result. Other heritage sites in and around the city remained unscathed as well, according to the local administration.Although there were rumours being circulated on WhatsApp about deaths of people in the city, district magistrate Pankaj Kumar downplayed such speculation, saying: "I assure our people that no human loss has been reported in Agra. We request citizens to remain calm and ignore misinformation being peddled by unverified sources."Terrified by the endless aftershocks that hit the city, locals huddled in groups. Panicked residents rushed out out, pouring out from residential high-rises, hotels and hospitals.Standing outside S N Medical College with his septuagenarian paralytic father, Santosh Raguram said, "The entire building of the hospital began shaking around 11.45am. Medical equipments and the bed in which my father was lying began swaying. We felt dizzy for nearly 15 minutes after the incident."Shelja Mishra, working for a private bank in Sanjay Place, also narrated a similar story. "We rushed out of our office building and huddled in the parking lot. We saw buildings moving like a pendulum. Fortunately, no one was injured but many of them felt nauseous after the tremors," she said.Traffic also came to a standstill as people emerged from their houses to escape the quake.
6706.txt:“People are very scared and they don’t know what is going on,” said CNN iReporter Prashup Rajbhandari in Kathmandu. He said he thought the quake had cracked his house.
6706.txt:Sabin Shrestha, a social activist in a village on the outskirts of Kathmandu, said dozens of houses around him that had suffered cracks in the last earthquake came down.
6727.txt:He was trekking on the Annapurna Circuit and said he could hear the sound of rocks cracking around them.
6740.txt:According to Dorothea Stumm, a glaciologist at the Nepal-based International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development, a massive hanging glacier cracked when the earthquake struck at 11.56am. The ice formed a cloud that gathered snow and rocks and then funnelled down the mountain, burying the village, and creating an enormous pressurised blast.
6761.txt:“The whole ground started to sway and shake,” he said. “It was literally moving. Around me buildings started to crack and fall down. Children were crying.”
6762.txt:Traffic eventually started to move, and many vehicles turned around to go back the way they came. As our bus inched forward, we saw where the asphalt had cracked and dropped significantly, making the road impassable. We turned around, too, with plans to return to our hotel. Unaware of the extent of the quake, we saw demolished buildings everywhere. Temples and mosques that had been standing that morning were now piles of bricks. People were in the streets with nowhere to go.
6774.txt:The trembling left many of Nepal's vertiginous terraced hillsides laced with cracks, including those in Dolakha District, the epicenter of the second quake. There the urgent need is not to build makeshift shelters but relocate people fast, according to Tibendra Banskota, Plan International Disaster Relief Coordinator. “There is no appropriate place to rebuild houses,” Bonskota said. If people aren't provided new land, “monsoon will start another disaster,” as cracked sections sluice away in landslides.
6783.txt:As the dust covered the village, women frantically screamed for their children. A cell phone video taken by one of the villagers showed one child grab another’s hand and crawl up the terraced wheat fields — but the ground underneath started cracking along the narrow ridge.
6783.txt:Those roads have been blocked again since the earthquake, as rocks tumbled down the hills. With no access to roads, villagers in Laprak didn’t get help for days until the government started flying helicopters, first to survey the damage, and later to drop relief supplies. But for almost two weeks after the killer quake, villagers here did not see a single grain of rice. In the hours after the earthquake, villagers gathered whatever they could — aluminum pots, ladles, jute ropes — on a doko, a V-shaped basket woven from dry bamboo shoots, and walked, many of them barefoot, for two hours until they reached Gupsi Dada, one of the higher hills that hadn’t cracked from the earthquake. Shurman and Pasmaya, whose daughter Churkela had died in the quake, went to look for her body after the aftershocks had subsided on April 28. They found her and tied her to a flat plank of wood and carried it to one of two graveyards in the village. After burying their daughter, they walked up to Gupsi Dada with rest of the villagers. Their one-bedroom home was now unlivable and the upper floor bhakari where they stored maize and wheat was smashed into rubble, all of the food now useless. Among their smashed possessions were pots and pans, and a dingy aluminum steamer, which Churkela had used to cook momos, a traditional Nepali dumpling made with spices and minced meat. “She made really good fried potatoes and very delicious momos,” Shurman recalled. “She said she wanted to run a momo restaurant one day.” With little available to eat now, the only thing Churkela’s parents could do was think about their daughter’s food. The government had doled out a ration of six packets of noodles and five packets of biscuits. “We need blankets,” Shurman said. “It’s cold and it is going to rain soon.” Villagers run up to the helipad whenever a helicopter lands, expecting to receive something, anything. Not everyone, however, is joyous about the rice. “I don’t feel like eating,” said Dambar Bahadur, whose eyes have been swollen from crying since the day he saw his daughter’s bloodied body in the debris. During the decade-long armed conflict between Maoist guerrillas and Nepal’s army from 1996 to 2006, Dambar Bahadur would walk for five days to the bazaar in Gorkha to buy food for his family. That morning, he hardly wanted to think about it. He wiped his tears with his cracked, dry palms and stared at his wife. Rivulets of tears ran down her face. He said, “How do we cook this rice if we don’t have our daughter to bring us firewood?”
679.txt:Rescue crews were racing to pull survivors from the rubble this evening after a powerful earthquake struck Nepal, even as officials said the death toll had soared over 2,100.The earthquake hit about 50 miles northwest of the capital of Kathmandu just before noon local time, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. The magnitude-7.8 quake toppled temples and triggered an avalanche on Mt. Everest.At least 2,100 people have been killed, the Nepal Interior Ministry told ABC News on Sunday.More than 1,000 others were injured, said the country's finance minister, Ram Sharan Mahat.At least 51 were also killed in India, 17 in Tibet, two in Bangladesh and two Chinese citizens died at the Nepal-China border.Sanjay Karki, country director of Mercy Corps in Nepal, said the ground was still shaking and there were predictions that another strong quake could come."The hospital has been overflooded with casualties," Karki said. "People just emptying their houses and you know, coming to open spaces, with blankets, with the children and all."According to the United Nations, nearly 5 million people were impacted by the earthquake, which was believed to be the worst earthquake in Nepal in more than 80 years.Abigail Hunter, an American traveling in Bhaktapur, saw people pulling others out of buildings and using motorbikes and small trucks as makeshift ambulances. The earthquake reduced many of the temples inside the city about 30 minutes away from the capital to rubble, she said, adding that she saw "lots of people praying to the actual temples" as aftershocks hit the city."The streets are littered with bricks, debris, loads of dust," said Hunter, the sister of an ABC News employee. "[It] was hard to see during the earthquake with all the dust."A magnitude-6.6 aftershock hit about an hour after the initial earthquake and smaller aftershocks followed in the region for hours.Hunter said she watched as families ran to their homes to see if anyone was still inside."Everyone was very scared," she said. "Lots of crying, families trying to find each other."Ayal Weiner-Kaplow, another American visiting Bhaktapur, said water wasn't flowing in the city and most of the remaining food was dried junk food and crackers. He said he wandered around in search for something to eat until he came upon a restaurant."A restaurant owner filled us up -- all of our bottles -- and gave us potatoes, bread, and chicken, refused payment adamantly," he said. "I was actually moved to tears."Weiner-Kaplow said most Nepalis were planning to sleep outside tonight, believing their homes were unsafe if another earthquake struck.The quake also killed 34 in India , six in Tibet , two in Bangladesh , and two on the Nepal-China border.The quake also triggered an avalanche on Mt. Everest that killed at least 10 climbers and guides and injured many more.David Arvan, who was set to climb Mt. Everest, said he immediately realized it was an earthquake, after having felt quakes before living in California."We sought shelter under a concave boulder until it subsided," he told ABC News by email. "Some people were crying in fear during all the rumbling."Azim Afif, a climber from Malaysia, was at a base camp when the quake hit and everything in his tent starting shaking."We go out and we see a big snowstorm coming to us," he said, adding that he saw "white, nothing else than white.""We are very lucky to survive," Afif said.The U.S. government is providing $1 million in assistance, according to the U.S. Embassy in Nepal. Disaster relief teams are en route.Secretary of State John Kerry said in a statement, "To the people in Nepal and the region affected by this tragedy we send our heartfelt sympathies.The United States stands with you during this difficult time."The Pakistan Army also said it is sending relief teams.
681.txt:When the earth first shook, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls.
6827.txt:The office of the Chief Secretary Leelamani Poudyal has also developed cracks, forcing him to move out. In the wake of the quake, he has been working from other government offices inside the Singha Durbar complex. The building of the Ministry of Youth and Sport and the Ministry of Women, Child and Social Welfare have also been damaged.
6827.txt:The buildings of the Foreign Ministry, the Kathmandu District Court, and the Nepal Army Headquarters outside Singha Durbar have also developed cracks, further exposing the vulnerability of the government buildings.
6843.txt:CNN iReporter Prashup Rajbhandar initially huddled with loved ones as his four-story house swung back and forth, before rushing outside. Now, fearing a crack in his house, he’s not sure whether he’ll ever go back home — instead making do by cooking on his lawn and sleeping in cars.
6843.txt:Sabin Shrestha, a social activist, saw people run toward the hills in a village on the capital’s outskirts as fresh cracks appeared in dozens of houses.
6848.txt:Johan: We heard that there are at least 100 dead in the last EQ, but I would guess a lot more. It's too early to say. A few hours ago (3 am) I woke up again with the whole ground moving. The sound of the buildings moving around is absolutely horrifying. Some of the cracked buildings became much worse but everybody survived here.
6858.txt:He said the government was failing to coordinate the distribution of relief material that has arrived in Nepal. "In many villages, there is not a single house that has not developed cracks or not collapsed altogether. The buildings that remain are shaky.''
6861.txt:He said the government was failing to coordinate the distribution of relief material. "In many villages, there is not a single house that has not developed cracks or not collapsed altogether. The buildings that remain are shaky."
6870.txt:He said the government was failing to coordinate the distribution of relief material that has arrived in Nepal. "In many villages, there is not a single house that has not developed cracks or not collapsed altogether. The buildings that remain are shaky."
6878.txt:“I am very scared and I am with my two sons. The school building is cracked and bits of it, I can see they have collapsed,” said Rhita Doma Sherpa, a nurse with the Mountain Medicine Center in Namche Bazaar, a departure point for trekkers headed to Everest.
6878.txt:In Lukla, the departure point for treks to Everest, buildings cracked and small landslides were triggered when the ground shook.
6884.txt:The Indian nonprofit Rashtra Seva Dal, which works in Bihar, said that 12 people died in the state's Darbhanga district, which borders Nepal. Cracks that had appeared in houses from the April 25 quake have widened, and more now seem on the verge of collapsing, aid workers said.
6892.txt:‘The land has cracked open’
6892.txt:“The land has cracked open in many places, many people don’t even have a spot to put their tents,” said Krishna Siwakoti, a farmer who lives near the epicenter.
6910.txt:The group had to cross this swing bridge showing cracks at its base
695.txt:Residents ran out of buildings in panic when the earthquake struck. Walls tumbled, large cracks opened on streets and walls, towers collapsed and clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
6966.txt:The two nations conducted joint assessments for three nights prior to the repairs by evaluating 20 critical areas along the entire 9,500-foot runway. They conducted visual assessments by evaluating for cracks, potholes or ruts to ensure damage would not hinder operations or impact aircraft. They also accomplished a runway bearing capacity investigation to determine its strength by drilling in the pavement and testing the soil up to 4 feet below the surface.
6972.txt:The recent quake, meanwhile, damaged its west and south sides of the second and third storeys and its pillars have developed cracks and the roof has been unhinged.
6976.txt:"Outside Kathmandu, we traveled to over 15 villages and saw massive destruction. We saw villages that had been completely wiped out," Adhikari said. "We saw huge cracks in the main highways, large boulders blocking roads, and landslides. In the first week after the quake, rain and colder temperatures, especially in the higher altitudes, made rescue efforts much harder. We noticed that due to the continued aftershocks, people were afraid. People, both in Kathmandu and in the villages, slept outside for several days for fear of another quake."
6977.txt:On my next visit, after the quake, the vast expanse of the Newari courtyard deprived of the salient Karunamaya Temple seemed desolate. Heaps of rubble stood on one end of the temple, while the other end barely managed to hold a small chunk of the structure with the tilted pillars. The Newari houses had lost their earlier uniformity; some houses were a pile of bricks with a few utensils and clothing strewn over the rubble, some were without walls, while others had huge cracks. A few houses looked intact from the outside, but rooms from the third floor of those buildings had plunged onto the ground floor, rendering them useless. The temple’s golden finial (gajur) lay forlorn on the ground, and a crowd of sad onlookers gathered to see the destruction.
6998.txt:The ground continued to tremble and buildings to sway for hours after the initial quake. All the buildings around them were cracked and damaged, and a few had crumbled, but, Amber said, most people in the streets were more concerned about relatives and friends in other areas, especially in Kathmandu, where the infrastructure is not as solidly built, and hard-to-reach rural areas.
7019.txt:He said the government was failing to coordinate the distribution of relief material. “In many villages, there is not a single house that has not developed cracks or not collapsed altogether. The buildings that remain are shaky.”
7020.txt:"We don't know what to do, the government hasn't come at all," said Gyan Budhacharya, a 40-year-old tailor whose family home has huge cracks running through its walls.
7035.txt:Lakes on top of mountains are contained by glacial walls, but during earthquakes those walls can crack, sending kilotons of water towards villages bellow.
7054.txt:He said the government was failing to coordinate the distribution of relief material. "In many villages, there is not a single house that has not developed cracks or not collapsed altogether. The buildings that remain are shaky."
7056.txt:At the crack of dawn, villagers lined up for the rice, each trying to get a bag for their own little cluster. This method reminded me of moshavim, Israel’s cooperative agricultural settlements where everyone has a very small plot of land to tend.
7111.txt:Pradeep Sharma with Cafe Kathmandu says people remain afraid because of the aftershocks. Older houses continue to crumble and cracks are forming in newer ones.
7125.txt:Murton’s group spent the night in Chuksang, a village where many old houses were cracked by the earthquake. On the day after, Murton rode in the back of a cargo truck headed to the village of Jomsom. When he arrived there 30 hours after the earthquake, he was able to get a phone signal and talk to family members in Colorado and Maine.
7156.txt:It was like a movie scene, Mr Kohlenberg said. "The road started cracking in front of us and continued to crack all the way up the road.
7167.txt:Now wooden bookcases lie smashed on the floor of the 120-year-old building, which was gifted to the nation by the Rana dynasty that ruled Nepal for more than a century before losing power in 1951.The library was closed on April 25 when the quake struck, and Karmacharya said it was two days before she plucked up the courage to go and see the destruction."I was speechless for a while... It was hard to believe the extent of the damage," the 58-year-old chief librarian told AFP as she surveyed the impact of the 7.8-magnitude quake, which killed more than 7,800 people."I cried when I got came back home, I couldn't help myself. The books are like my children, and I love them very much."Thank God it was a Saturday and there were no readers inside."Karmacharya estimates that the quake damaged around a third of the 28,000 books in the Kaiser Library.They were the collection of Kaiser Shumsher, a scion of the Rana family who travelled to England in 1908 and fell in love with the grand houses and their private libraries.When he returned to Nepal he decided to build his own in his palace in central Kathmandu.Inside the building, antique statues lie in pieces on the floor and stuffed animal heads and portraits of Nepal's former rulers in full military dress hang precariously on severely cracked walls.In one room are the fragments of a suit of armour smashed to pieces in the quake; in another, a stuffed Bengal tiger and a huge bearskin rug, the head and paws still attached.Books in the English section -- many of which Shumsher brought back from his visit to England -- include John Buchan's adventure classics and such titles as "The Big Game of Asia".But the library is more than an eccentric throwback to a bygone era in Nepal, a feudal Hindu kingdom until just seven years ago when the monarchy was abolished following a Maoist revolution.It also houses rare South Asian manuscripts on Buddhism, Tantrism and astrology, some so old they are written on palm-leaves.
7170.txt:"Now, during the earthquake itself, what happens is the opposite," Wright said. When the pressure between the plates gets to be too much, there is dramatic movement along cracks in the Earth's crust called fault lines. That movement creates an earthquake, like what happened a few weeks ago. When all that energy was released, the portion of land getting dragged down sprang back up, and the part getting squashed upwards relaxed, kind of like a rubber band snapping after being pulled too taut.
7177.txt:It’s now on hold indefinitely, like so much in the country. Schools are shut. The government is reportedly transporting injured citizens from remote areas to the best hospitals in big cities, which are overwhelmed. Foreigners are sending tons of aid, or at least enough to crack the fragile runway of the small international airport.
7180.txt:"Outside Kathmandu, we traveled to over 15 villages and saw massive destruction. We saw villages that had been completely wiped out," Adhikari said. "We saw huge cracks in the main highways, large boulders blocking roads, and landslides. In the first week after the quake, rain and colder temperatures, especially in the higher altitudes, made rescue efforts much harder. We noticed that due to the continued aftershocks, people were afraid. People, both in Kathmandu and in the villages, slept outside for several days for fear of another quake."
7185.txt:It was like a movie scene, Mr Kohlenberg said. "The road started cracking in front of us and continued to crack all the way up the road.
7192.txt:“Retrofitting against earthquakes was the best decision that I took as headmaster of this school,” said Jeetandra Lal Shrestha, former headmaster at Bhagwati Higher Secondary School in Sankhu, northwest of Kathmandu Valley. “I have checked many times and there is not even a crack in the school building. Around 300 people took shelter in this school after the quake. The earthquake occurred on a Saturday, but I am confident the children of this school would be safe even if it had happened on a school day,” he added. Tika Ram Timisina, headmaster of Tri Padmadaya School in Lalitpur District, south Kathmandu, said “Our school building is intact. We gave shelter to around 500 students, parents and teachers, and the community at large in our school after the quake. Now everyone knows the importance of safe buildings.”
7202.txt:He continued: “From where I am standing, I can see cracks in several buildings and there is a real fear of buildings collapsing." “We are working as best we can to establish the level of damage, injuries and potential loss of life here in the capital and elsewhere.”
720.txt:As Nepal trembled, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
7244.txt:Montana DOJ unveils new program to crack down on organized crime in Montana Evidence from MHP Adjudicated Cases $1.5 million of stolen goods. (photo credit: Montana Highway Patrol) Wednesday, October 18, 2017 4:09 PM EDT Updated: A new Montana Department of Justice program has hit the streets aimed at cracking down on organized crime. More>>
7246.txt:After Nepal was hit by a devastating 7.8 earthquake on April 25, Anjalee Bajracharya and her husband spent two nights sleeping – or more accurately trying to sleep – in a vacant lot in Kathmandu, eventually returning to their home, which had significant cracks in the walls but was still standing.
7248.txt:I brought cases of water, bread, and cooked rice to give out to Bhaktapur residents. The city was hit rather hard in both quakes. While there, I met Purushottam Prajapati, whose house had sustained cracks in the April 25th quake. He had returned to his house with his family after living in tents after the initial quake. However, today’s quake had caused a complete collapse of the home.
724.txt:Many mountain roads are cracked or blocked by landslides.
724.txt:"We saw cracks emerging in the walls surrounding us - rubble was falling down."
7263.txt:“We don’t know what to do, the government hasn’t come at all,” said Gyan Budhacharya, a 40-year-old tailor whose family home has huge cracks running through its walls.
7264.txt:Suddenly the home started swaying violently and cracks started to appear on the walls. Sonia ran outside, but realised that her brother was still inside. She returned, picked up her brother and started running outside. But the house had started to crumble by then, and she could not move her trapped feet. She held her brother tightly against her chest.
7270.txt:"Even those houses that have not been flattened have developed cracks. People are too afraid to go into them. We are still feeling the aftershocks that make people terrified."
7307.txt:Montana DOJ unveils new program to crack down on organized crime in Montana Evidence from MHP Adjudicated Cases $1.5 million of stolen goods. (photo credit: Montana Highway Patrol) Wednesday, October 18, 2017 4:09 PM EDT Updated: A new Montana Department of Justice program has hit the streets aimed at cracking down on organized crime. More>>
7325.txt:The two nations conducted joint assessments for three nights, prior to the repairs, by evaluating 20 critical areas along the entire 9,500-foot runway. They conducted visual assessments by evaluating for cracks, potholes or ruts, to ensure damage would not hinder operations or impact aircraft. They also accomplished a runway bearing capacity investigation to determine its strength by drilling in the pavement and testing the soil up to 4 feet below the surface.
7335.txt:I’ve already read reports and heard complaints about blatant corruption, gross inefficiency, and unnecessary bureaucracy holding up foreign aid. Even if orders are coming from the top to get cracking on delivering the aid pouring in from around the world, shipments have been bottlenecked by customs red-tape and convoys blocked by local officials. What’s even more unacceptable to me is the Nepal government’s requirement that all donations must be made to the bank account of the so-called Prime Minister’s Disaster Relief Fund. So a bunch of politicians and bureaucrats will control and decide how much money goes where? Yeah, right.
7346.txt:“You can see the cracks in the hill terraces from the earthquake damage. I dread to think about the effect the rain will have and the damage that will happen. It will be off the scale.
7354.txt:On May 12, when a massive 7.3 earthquake aftershock heaved across this small country, once again the mountain people were hit the hardest. Entire hills cracked open, rock and earth landslides squashed the remnants of surviving houses, blocked access roads, annihilated entire communities and left the Nepali government and the international community struggling with aid delivery.
7354.txt:It was a tough journey. From Kathmandu, he took a seven-hour truck ride on a paved road, a two-hour drive on a narrow dirt track edged on a precipice, then crawled on all fours over a landslide before hiking uphill for 45 minutes. These were the first deliveries of food and tarps for shelter since April 25. "People kept on asking:'is it safe to stay here. Look at the crack in the earth? Should we leave?'"
7355.txt:'Even those houses that have not been flattened have developed cracks. People are too afraid to go into them. We are still feeling the aftershocks that makes people terrified.'
7358.txt:In many districts, hospitals and health centres have been flattened, and those still standing have numerous cracks, making them susceptible to collapse. Bhaktapur hospital received a mass influx of wounded people after the second earthquake, prompting MSF to donate dressing kits and medicine.
7358.txt:“My house was cracked in the first earthquake; the second earthquake finished it. I’m broken, I have lost my property and my cattle are no more, but I’m happy that my family was not in the house when this happened. They were in a displacement camp for fear of the house collapsing. And they were right,” said Rajkumar Pakhrin, MSF’s administration assistant from Mirge village in Dolakha District.
757.txt:"Rolling and crawling, we came back. We were scared. We rushed down from the mountain at the height of about 7000 meters. Blocks of cracked ice rolled down in our direction but suddenly turned right and fell into an ice crack. It was very dangerous. I am safe now at a camp at the height of 6500 meters.
774.txt:When the earth first shook, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls.
782.txt:ON BOARD FLIGHT 6E 31: There seemed to be quite a few who had at the last moment cancelled their IndiGo flight to Kathmandu from New Delhi on Sunday . They will be happy they did.The flight, filled with journalists from all over the world and Nepalese citizens going home to meet their families, was on time as it took off at about 20 minutes past 11am. Amrit Sharma, a web entrepreneur settled in Minneapolis, was worried about his mother in Nepal. "I'm happy to be going home," he said in a thick American accent. "Happy and sad."Behind him, two Nepalese men were discussing the extent of damage to their houses. One of them, possibly working in India, said he would have to "remain here for another 10 years."Trouble suddenly started at around 12.45pm when the pilot announced that he had lost contact with the ATC in Kathmandu. Even as the passengers were turning to each other to see if they had understood correctly what he said, there was an explanation a minute later that did nothing to change the mood. "ATC has evacuated the building. We are not able to establish contact."Thousands of feet above ground, in the middle of nowhere, that didn't sound good at all. And that's a deliberate understatement.Ten minutes after that the pilot took the mic again. "Hope you understand. It is beyond our control." Everyone understood. There was no scope for confusion.Another quake had hit Kathmandu, and the 6.9 magnitude tremor had forced everyone in the ATC building to run for their lives. So there was no one to guide the flight from Delhi.But the plane kept going towards Kathmandu, the pilot hopeful that in the next few minutes the ATC men would perhaps come back and take control. That didn't happen. What did, instead, was the message that the runway had now closed. Kathmandu was just 20 minutes away. Another address to the passengers followed. At about 1.15pm, the pilot said that though they don't know the exact intensity of the latest jolt to hit the valley, "we have come to know it was stronger than yesterday". After a silent five minutes, he came back on air, this time to say, "We are not allowed to land. We will have to divert to Delhi."Something resembling a muted yelp came out of Sharma. "My mother," he said.By 1.25pm, the flight was turning back for Delhi. It touched down at the capital at a little past 2pm, but no one was allowed to deplane. "Please remain in your seats," a member of the cabin crew announced. "We are trying to see if it's possible to go back to Kathmandu."At 4.05pm, all passengers were still inside the plane. It had been five hours cooped up in the aircraft and people were getting restless. Half an hour later, the mic crackled to life again. "We have the clearance now, we are going back to Kathmandu."At 10 minutes to 5pm, the 6E 31 took off again. But at 6.15, it was the pilot again. "We are 100 miles short of Kathmandu. The weather is bad and it won't be advisable to penetrate it. Don't worry, we have two hours of fuel."It would take another two hours for the plane to touch down, which it did at 8pm. The one and half hour Delhi-Kathmandu flight had taken close to 9 hours. In the distance from Tribhuvan International Airport was the city of Kathmandu, desolate, bruised and dark.
794.txt:Left, bystanders examine cracks in the road.
796.txt:http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/we-saw-buildings-crumble-roads-crack/article7144295.ece
796.txt:‘We saw buildings crumble, roads crack’
796.txt:“At first, we didn't know what was happening...Soon we could see buildings far off crumbling, roofs falling and people jumping to save their lives...the roads developed cracks, some almost one foot wide. It was scary...” Mr Sharma said.
796.txt:“Nobody was being able to keep their foot on the ground ... it was so powerful. And, right in front of us we saw buildings crumble and roads crack up. The basement of the hotel lobby developed cracks,” said Mr. Purandare. “There was so much panic and tension that nobody could take any photographs,” Mr. Purandare said.
802.txt:With people fearing more quakes, tens of thousands spent the day crowding in the streets and the night sleeping in parks or on a golf course. Others camped in open squares lined by cracked buildings and piles of rubble. Helicopter blades thudded periodically overhead. The ground shook with the worst of the aftershocks - magnitude 6.7 - and panicked residents raced outdoors.
805.txt:http://www.mumbaimirror.com/mumbai/cover-story/Our-hotel-cracked-through-the-middle/articleshow/47054340.cms
805.txt:‘Our hotel cracked through the middle’
805.txt:Juhu couple Sahil Mane and Tara Kaushal landed in Kathmandu last Monday on a two-week vacation. Sahil, a photographer, and Tara, a media consultant, hadn't had a holiday in two years, and selected Nepal for an adrenalin rush, complete with treks and bike rides. Yesterday, 11.56 am Nepal time, they literally saw the world crumble in front of them.As the earthquake of a 7.9 magnitude hit Nepal - its worst in 80 years - Tara and Sahil were getting a tattoo done at Hotel Yak and Yeti, in the capital Kathmandu. First the lights went off, then came the tremors, and the reality hit them when they saw a man jumping from a window of a building opposite. That's when they realised it was serious trouble."It was crazy, the ground was shaking and the buildings were crumbling to dust in front of our eyes," Sahil said. "We rushed out and saw a man jumping from a building. We saw a huge crack in the middle of our hotel building. It had cracked from the middle. Several people were buried under the debris within minutes."The couple, like hundreds of thousands of people trapped in Kathmandu, have taken refuge in a park. No-one dares to venture indoors as there are warnings of more tremors. "We were attending a tattoo convention with more than 70 artists from all over the world when the chandeliers hanging from the roof began swinging wildly. "The hotels are shut, and people have lined the streets, parks, everywhere," Sahil said.The Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu was indefinitely shut on Saturday. However, by evening yesterday, the airlines announced the resumption of flights to Nepal from Sunday. A few airlines, such as SpiceJet, have been asked to keep aircraft ready to lift supplies and bring back stranded passengers.Around 60 people from Maharashtra are believed to be stranded in Nepal. Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis has directed state officials to keep in touch with them and assured all possible help, and a rescue team of 22 members from the Mumbai Fire Brigade are expected to fly to the Himalayan country."I have instructed the state officials to be in touch with tourists from Maharashtra in Nepal and to give all the support and help to them," Fadnavis tweeted.The Juhu couple said they were looking forward to get out of Nepal as soon as possible, as even water was scarce. Thousands of tourists have been stranded without food and water, the couple said, adding the people had pitched tents at the parks."As soon as we realised there was an earthquake, we started looking for water. Everything has been shut. As we walked the narrows streets, which resemble the by-lanes of Bandra, walls around us were collapsing. There are people from all over the world who are stranded. We are lucky that we had come prepared for the music festival, and carried tents, sleeping bags and sweaters," Sahil said.
813.txt:Umesh Zirpe, a noted mountaineer and Himalaya expert, has survived many a calamity on his expeditions in the past. On Saturday morning, when devastation struck this mountain country, Zirpe was driving to the airport to check on flight details of a team of mountaineers, who had completed yet another voyage, when he suddenly felt his car shake up. For a split second as Zirpe was about to consider a flat tyre, he saw houses around him collapse like a pack of cards, reduced to dust instantly.Minutes later, volunteers from his organisation Giripremi back in Pune, were set in motion to begin preparations for rescue operations. On Sunday, Zirpe and 12 other mountaineers from Pune who were on an expedition, reached Kathmandu airport safely, to take a flight back home, but Zirpe has decided to stay back."There are many people from Maharashtra stuck in various parts of Nepal. The situation is very critical. The roads are full of debris and those who have survived the calamity are shattered. Right now, they are in need of three things — moral support, blood and money. After seeing the devastation all around me, I have decided to stay put and help others."Zirpe led the Pune-based team, which had conquered Mount Everest in 2012; subsequently, he had taken a team of mountaineers to the Everest base camp. Today, he feels that he and his volunteers are fortunate to be of help. "While in the car, when we learnt that an earthquake of such a huge magnitude had hit this region, the driver just left the vehicle and ran in the middle of the road in sheer panic," narrated Zirpe over acrackling phone line from Kathmandu on Sunday evening. "It was the ugliest scene ever. People have lost their homes and are now completely shattered."Zirpe put down his impromptu decision to the long association he has had with Nepal — the many friendships he has struck here over the years and the local organisations that have helped him through many mountaineering expeditions. "Now, when they are facing a crisis, I thought we should help them. Apart from Nepali nationals, there are several Maharashtrians who are stuck here and I feel I am obliged to help them."He visited a local hospital on Sunday to seek names and other details of people from Maharashtra who are admitted for treatment. "The Nepalese government will require manpower to help survivors and I have asked members of Giripremi to be on the standby as volunteers," Zirpe said.Ashish Rajput, a Solapur-based professor, stuck in the calamity-hit region, feels he is living an experience nothing short of a nightmare. As he travelled from Kathmandu to Sunauli border, with 38 others who were on a trip to Nepal, in order to board a Mumbai-bound train, the only images being presented to him are those of dead people and debris."When the quake struck, we had just emerged from the Pashupatinath temple in Kathmandu, after a darshan. Soon we saw the situation getting out of hand, and so decided to go to our next destination on Sunauli border. This devastation will be etched in our memory for ever. The agony and grief in the eyes of survivors on the scene is unbearable," said Rajput on the phone. "All of us just want to return home. But are these the memories we deserve to carry for life?" The group will now board the train on Tuesday.The devastation will be etched in our memory forever. The agony and grief in the eyes of the survivors on the scene is unbearable
814.txt:April 25: Strong tremors were felt across the Northeast, triggering panic among the people and leaving buildings with cracks, prompting the administration to get into disaster-management mode.
814.txt:Kamrup (metro) deputy commissioner M. Angamuthu told The Telegraph that the administration had received reports of minor cracks in 30 government and private buildings in the city.
814.txt:Several buildings in lower Assam have reportedly developed cracks.
814.txt:There were reports of several buildings developing cracks, including a government school in Imphal East, sources said. But there was no report of collapse of buildings or human casualties.
816.txt:The Nepal temblor has sent shock waves in Karnataka too, with around 250 people from the state stranded there. The good news is that the first batch of 40 Bengalureans will fly to Delhi early Sunday and land in Bengaluru by noon, according to immigration officials and embassy sources. "Nearly 400 Indians are waiting at Kathmandu airport," they said.Shivaram MS, a tour coordinator in Kathmandu, confirmed 40 Bengalureans are with him at the airport. Chief secretary Kaushik Mukherjee told STOI that two senior officers, Bescom MD Pankaj Pandey and IGP (north range) Umesh Kumar, have gone to Nepal.Meanwhile families back home are worried as the Kathmandu airport has been shut and communication lines are cut off.Sunitha Gowda, a resident of Veerbhadranagar near Banashankari, broke down when STOI called her: "My parents went to Nepal for a tour on April 16 and were to return on Monday. My father L Siddamaraiah called me at 5.55pm on Saturday after the quake and seemed to be in shock. He could hardly speak and asked me to get help from Bengaluru.I am praying they are safe."Ritesh Kumar Singh, IAS officer who is heading the helpline and disaster management committee, said, "At least 250 people from Karnataka are stranded in Nepal. We tracked down two large groups of 85 and 40 Kannadigas each who are safe . IAF has started evacuation," he said.--inputs by Arunima Chakraborty and Disha SanghviBizman called an hour before takeoffBusinessman Ramakrishna Elluru, 32, from Yelahanka New Town had gone to Kathmandu on a business trip on April 18 and was to return by Saturday's 4.30pm flight. His friend Raghavendra B R told STOI, "He last called me at 3.30pm, an hour before his flight was to take off from Kathmandu. Since then, we've been unable to connect. His family is very worried."She was on tour with 6 friendsSusheela, 54, an LIC employee from Davanagere, who had gone on a tour to Nepal with six Bengaluru-based friends on April 22, finally established contact with her kin.Susheela, who is single, had spoken to her family at 11am from Muktinath but later lost contact, said her sister Krishnaveni.Group waits for road clearanceSooryakant Dambal and his family and friends, who were part of a 35-member group from Belagavi, are safe, said his son-in-law Rajendra Anegundi from Chikkodi. But they can't return until the local administration gives them the road clearance, as several roads have developed cracks following the earthquake, he added.Miraculous escape for family of sevenA seven-member family from Mysuru had a narrow escape as they left Kathmandu just an hour before the tragedy. B S Nagaraj, priest at Ramamandira in Paduvarahalli, and his family reached the Indian border just after noon, said his brother-in-law.They were part of an organized trip by Karnataka Kisan Sangha in Bengaluru.Student worried about his parentsA distressed Sandeep H R, a college student from Jayanagar, said his parents flew to Kathmandu on Thursday and were expected to visit Pokhra on Saturday."They last spoke to me at noon. I have no clue whether they have reached Pokhra or are stranded there or are in Kathmandu still. I'm unable to speak to them," he said.
82.txt:Many mountain roads are cracked or blocked by landslides.
82.txt:"We saw cracks emerging in the walls surrounding us - rubble was falling down."
85.txt:A magnitude-6.6 aftershock hit about an hour later, and at least 16 aftershocks continued to jolt the region for hours. Residents ran out of homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. And clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
879.txt:As the quake hit Saturday afternoon, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
87.txt:As Nepal trembled, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
881.txt:Rescue crews were racing to pull survivors from the rubble this evening after a powerful earthquake struck Nepal, even as officials said the death toll had soared over 2,100.The earthquake hit about 50 miles northwest of the capital of Kathmandu just before noon local time, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. The magnitude-7.8 quake toppled temples and triggered an avalanche on Mt. Everest.At least 2,100 people have been killed, the Nepal Interior Ministry told ABC News on Sunday.More than 1,000 others were injured, said the country's finance minister, Ram Sharan Mahat.At least 51 were also killed in India, 17 in Tibet, two in Bangladesh and two Chinese citizens died at the Nepal-China border.Sanjay Karki, country director of Mercy Corps in Nepal, said the ground was still shaking and there were predictions that another strong quake could come."The hospital has been overflooded with casualties," Karki said. "People just emptying their houses and you know, coming to open spaces, with blankets, with the children and all."According to the United Nations, nearly 5 million people were impacted by the earthquake, which was believed to be the worst earthquake in Nepal in more than 80 years.Abigail Hunter, an American traveling in Bhaktapur, saw people pulling others out of buildings and using motorbikes and small trucks as makeshift ambulances. The earthquake reduced many of the temples inside the city about 30 minutes away from the capital to rubble, she said, adding that she saw "lots of people praying to the actual temples" as aftershocks hit the city."The streets are littered with bricks, debris, loads of dust," said Hunter, the sister of an ABC News employee. "[It] was hard to see during the earthquake with all the dust."A magnitude-6.6 aftershock hit about an hour after the initial earthquake and smaller aftershocks followed in the region for hours.Hunter said she watched as families ran to their homes to see if anyone was still inside."Everyone was very scared," she said. "Lots of crying, families trying to find each other."Ayal Weiner-Kaplow, another American visiting Bhaktapur, said water wasn't flowing in the city and most of the remaining food was dried junk food and crackers. He said he wandered around in search for something to eat until he came upon a restaurant."A restaurant owner filled us up -- all of our bottles -- and gave us potatoes, bread, and chicken, refused payment adamantly," he said. "I was actually moved to tears."Weiner-Kaplow said most Nepalis were planning to sleep outside tonight, believing their homes were unsafe if another earthquake struck.The quake also killed 34 in India , six in Tibet , two in Bangladesh , and two on the Nepal-China border.The quake also triggered an avalanche on Mt. Everest that killed at least 10 climbers and guides and injured many more.David Arvan, who was set to climb Mt. Everest, said he immediately realized it was an earthquake, after having felt quakes before living in California."We sought shelter under a concave boulder until it subsided," he told ABC News by email. "Some people were crying in fear during all the rumbling."Azim Afif, a climber from Malaysia, was at a base camp when the quake hit and everything in his tent starting shaking."We go out and we see a big snowstorm coming to us," he said, adding that he saw "white, nothing else than white.""We are very lucky to survive," Afif said.The U.S. government is providing $1 million in assistance, according to the U.S. Embassy in Nepal. Disaster relief teams are en route.Secretary of State John Kerry said in a statement, "To the people in Nepal and the region affected by this tragedy we send our heartfelt sympathies.The United States stands with you during this difficult time."The Pakistan Army also said it is sending relief teams.
886.txt:"Three minutes after it first hit, I looked down into Bhaktapur, and the whole thing looks like smoke and dust," he said. "Hundreds of houses collapsed. The roads are cracked and broken. Even the recently built roads are in many pieces.
889.txt:As Nepal trembled, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
889.txt:The 2014 deaths occurred at the Icefall, where the edge of the slow-moving glacier is known to crack, cave and send huge chunks of ice tumbling without warning.
88.txt:Rescue crews were racing to pull survivors from the rubble this evening after a powerful earthquake struck Nepal, even as officials said the death toll had soared over 2,100.The earthquake hit about 50 miles northwest of the capital of Kathmandu just before noon local time, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. The magnitude-7.8 quake toppled temples and triggered an avalanche on Mt. Everest.At least 2,100 people have been killed, the Nepal Interior Ministry told ABC News on Sunday.More than 1,000 others were injured, said the country's finance minister, Ram Sharan Mahat.At least 51 were also killed in India, 17 in Tibet, two in Bangladesh and two Chinese citizens died at the Nepal-China border.Sanjay Karki, country director of Mercy Corps in Nepal, said the ground was still shaking and there were predictions that another strong quake could come."The hospital has been overflooded with casualties," Karki said. "People just emptying their houses and you know, coming to open spaces, with blankets, with the children and all."According to the United Nations, nearly 5 million people were impacted by the earthquake, which was believed to be the worst earthquake in Nepal in more than 80 years.Abigail Hunter, an American traveling in Bhaktapur, saw people pulling others out of buildings and using motorbikes and small trucks as makeshift ambulances. The earthquake reduced many of the temples inside the city about 30 minutes away from the capital to rubble, she said, adding that she saw "lots of people praying to the actual temples" as aftershocks hit the city."The streets are littered with bricks, debris, loads of dust," said Hunter, the sister of an ABC News employee. "[It] was hard to see during the earthquake with all the dust."A magnitude-6.6 aftershock hit about an hour after the initial earthquake and smaller aftershocks followed in the region for hours.Hunter said she watched as families ran to their homes to see if anyone was still inside."Everyone was very scared," she said. "Lots of crying, families trying to find each other."Ayal Weiner-Kaplow, another American visiting Bhaktapur, said water wasn't flowing in the city and most of the remaining food was dried junk food and crackers. He said he wandered around in search for something to eat until he came upon a restaurant."A restaurant owner filled us up -- all of our bottles -- and gave us potatoes, bread, and chicken, refused payment adamantly," he said. "I was actually moved to tears."Weiner-Kaplow said most Nepalis were planning to sleep outside tonight, believing their homes were unsafe if another earthquake struck.The quake also killed 34 in India , six in Tibet , two in Bangladesh , and two on the Nepal-China border.The quake also triggered an avalanche on Mt. Everest that killed at least 10 climbers and guides and injured many more.David Arvan, who was set to climb Mt. Everest, said he immediately realized it was an earthquake, after having felt quakes before living in California."We sought shelter under a concave boulder until it subsided," he told ABC News by email. "Some people were crying in fear during all the rumbling."Azim Afif, a climber from Malaysia, was at a base camp when the quake hit and everything in his tent starting shaking."We go out and we see a big snowstorm coming to us," he said, adding that he saw "white, nothing else than white.""We are very lucky to survive," Afif said.The U.S. government is providing $1 million in assistance, according to the U.S. Embassy in Nepal. Disaster relief teams are en route.Secretary of State John Kerry said in a statement, "To the people in Nepal and the region affected by this tragedy we send our heartfelt sympathies.The United States stands with you during this difficult time."The Pakistan Army also said it is sending relief teams.
892.txt:I tried telling people around us to calm down but everyone kept shoving one another to get out. So we found a corner to wait until the crowd cleared, along with two elderly tourists.After a minute or so, the tremors subsided. By then, many passengers and the ground crew were outside the terminal building, on the tarmac.After a while, many of them went back into the terminal building, but they ran out again whenever there was an aftershock.Andrea and I chose to stay on the tarmac, nipping in quickly to use the toilet and back out again.There was a lot of dust floating about outside the terminal building following the quake, and every 10 to 15 minutes, we would feel an aftershock, which sent people into a tizzy again.Two hours after the quake, at 2 p.m., there was still no information on the status of outgoing flights. However, a few flights from Yeti Airlines began landing, each to applause from the people around.At 2:10 p.m., we were asked to board our plane, the reason being that it would be more comfortable for us on the aircraft.One of our fellow passengers was Australian actress Brittni Giles, 27, who was in Nepal working on a documentary on motorcycle trekking.She told me: "My friend and I were waiting in the corridor of the airport leading to the tarmac when we felt the earth rumbling beneath our feet. We could hear cracks forming in the building, followed by people screaming and running out onto the tarmac."I used to live in Japan so I'm quite familiar with earthquakes. I looked up at the hills and saw all the dust and realized it must have been a pretty big one."My friends are still in the city (Kathmandu) and they are all right. They are helping to pull people out of the rubble."This was my first trip to Nepal and I had been looking forward to visiting this Shangri-La in a mountain valley with Andrea.We spent two days in Kathmandu, visiting the Durbar squares; enjoying the chaos of Thamel, a backpackers' haunt; wandering through the streets of the ancient city of Bhaktapur; and enjoying the local food - lots of dahl bat.We also did a five-day trek in the Himalayas.Along the way, we got to see how the Nepali people lived. Most of those we met were soft-spoken, humble folk, including our guide Diwan Gaire, 26, who took care of us.Businesses were run in a welcoming, laid-back fashion, with minimal touting.I wish the people of Nepal strength as they recover from this tragedy, and hope they receive the aid they need to do so.By Dhany Osman(The Straits Times)
893.txt:A magnitude-6.6 aftershock hit about an hour later, and smaller aftershocks continued to jolt the region for hours. Residents ran out of homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Towers collapsed and clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
899.txt:The quake was more destructive for being shallow, toppling buildings, opening gaping cracks in roads and sending people scurrying into the open as aftershocks rattled their damaged homes.
927.txt:"I could tell immediately in Jon's voice that something was wrong," Tomer said. "I've heard it before. "Jon said the mountain shook, the entire glacier shook and cracked. People ran from their tents. A sonic blast swept across base camp as a giant piece of ice and rock sheared off Pumori landing right in the Khumbu Icefall."
92.txt:As Nepal trembled, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
93.txt:As Nepal trembled, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Clouds of dust began to swirl all around.
949.txt:New Delhi, April 26: Teetering on a precipice, the helipad looked like it was about to cave in. An Indian Air Force helicopter flying from Kathmandu circled twice above the helipad at Dhuncha, 50km north of Kathmandu, this afternoon. There were villagers at Dhuncha wanting to be evacuated. Fresh tremors had loosened the earth and the helipad itself was cracked. The Indian pilots, with another from the Nepal Army to guide them, decided the helipad may not be able to take the weight of their machine. But down they went, hesitantly and hovered inches above the ground, taking in passengers one by one before flying to safety. As the IAF and the Indian Army fan out with other rescuers, medical teams, salvagers and caregivers across the Himalayan republic, the magnitude of the disaster and the risks involved in the rescue are gradually beginning to dawn. Tens of thousands of people were in or were headed to Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu this afternoon where a glut of military and commercial planes created congestion. The toll in the quakes in Nepal since yesterday was estimated to have crossed 2,400 by 7 this evening. An exact count of the number of Indians in Nepal is being "ruled out", largely because of the freedom of movement that citizens of either country have. The Indian Army, that is calling its effort in Nepal "Operation Maitri", today pumped troops, equipment and helicopters into Nepal with the army chief, General Dalbir Singh, himself a Gorkha Rifles regiment officer, calling his counterpart General S.J.B. Rana in the morning and offering assistance. Two major generals have been posted to Pokhara and Kathmandu each to coordinate the effort. The Indian and Nepal army chiefs are also honorary chiefs of one another's armies. A multi-national coordination centre has been set up with a branch headquarters in Pokhara. Army sources said six of 18 medical teams that have been tasked to help with the relief efforts in Nepal have been deployed. Rain and thunderstorms that forced closure of Kathmandu airport for about four hours in the afternoon delayed deployment. The army is also sending 10 engineer task forces with machinery to clear roads and debris. The troops have taken along with them 10,000 blankets and 1,000 tents are on standby. The army and the air force have also forward-deployed helicopters and planes to Gorakhpur and Bareilly. On a special request from the Nepal government because of problems in the Kathmandu Oxygen plant, the army has been asked to take cylinders of the life-giving gas for distribution. An Indian Army Everest Expedition that survived two avalanches at the base camp had till today extricated the bodies of 19 climbers of different nationalities and rescued 61 mountaineers. The army team has lost almost all its equipment in the avalanches. The army said it was coordinating efforts with former soldiers - of the Gorkha regiments in the Indian Army - "for guidance, relief and rescue". IAF helicopters that have been moved to Kathmandu and Pokhara have flown 37 sorties over 23 hours since yesterday, defence spokesperson Sitanshu Kar said. The helicopters have evacuated 203 people. Fixed-wing aircraft of the IAF have flown back more than 1,100 people from Kathmandu to airports in India.
965.txt:Foreign Secretary S. Jaishankar said the prime minister's instructions were to get cracking on relief and rescue operations.
968.txt:Pakistan was also sending 2,000 ready-to-eat meal packs, water bottles, medicines, 200 tents, 600 blankets and other necessary items. When the earth first shook, residents fled homes and buildings in panic as walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets.
969.txt:"I cannot give the total number as there are deaths in Kalinpong, Meerik. There been damage. Schools are closed on Sundays. So, until I visit I cannot tell. In Kolkata, the bridges and building have cracked. Today also, there have been damages," said Banerjee.
96.txt:As the quake intensified, residents ran out of homes and buildings in panic. Clouds of dust began to swirl around them. Large cracks opened up on streets and walls.
972.txt:With people fearing more quakes, tens of thousands spent the day crowding in the streets and the night sleeping in parks or on a golf course. Others camped in open squares lined by cracked buildings and piles of rubble. Helicopter blades thudded periodically overhead.
974.txt:When the earth first shook, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls.
975.txt:“It was the worst earthquake I have ever experienced in my life. The aftershocks are still strong. The indications so far are that this is a major emergency," said Fr. Pius Perumana S.J, Director of Caritas Nepal, in Kathmandu. "Lots of houses have fallen down and there are lots with cracks. Thank God it was during the day and on a holiday as many people were outside when the quake happened. Rescue is the first priority. Lots of people have lost their homes and are out on the street or in open spaces, so we will be looking to provide them with food and temporary shelter."
977.txt:When the earth first shook, residents fled homes and buildings in panic as walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets. After the chaos of Saturday—when little organized rescue and relief was seen—there was more order on Sunday as rescue teams fanned out across the city.
982.txt:When the earth first shook, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls.
985.txt:When the earth first shook, residents fled homes and buildings in panic as walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets.
995.txt:“I could tell immediately in Jon’s voice that something was wrong," Tomer said. "I’ve heard it before. Jon said the mountain shook, the entire glacier shook and cracked. People ran from their tents. A sonic blast swept across base camp as a giant piece of ice and rock sheared off Pumori landing right in the Khumbu Icefall.”
