1158.txt:Historical monuments such as Dharhara and Basantapur Durbar Square and Patan Durbar Square have been completely destroyed by the tremors.
1187.txt:Around 180 bodies were pulled from the ruins of Dharhara tower in the center of Kathmandu when the devastating quake, the worst in the country since 1930s, struck at 11:45 a.m. local time (0600 GMT) with its epicenter 34 km southeast of Lamjung at a depth of 15 km.
1228.txt:Historical monuments such as Dharhara and Basantapur Durbar Square and Patan Durbar Square have been completely detroyed in the country.
1231.txt:Among the buildings that were destroyed was the 19th-century, nine-storey Dharhara tower, a major tourist attraction in the heart of the city's old quarter.
1231.txt:"Our team is still deployed in Dharhara to rescue people. However, we do not know how many are still trapped," he said.
1231.txt:People took to social media to express their dismay at the historic site's collapse. "Devastating to see Dharhara (Bhimsen Tower) collapsed," user Prabir Bhatt said on Twitter.
1273.txt:The powerful quake razed to the ground a number of buildings, including the iconic Dharhara tower and the landmark Darbar Square - a UNESCO World Heritage site - in the heart of the capital, trapping scores of people.
127.txt:A powerful earthquake flattened houses and buildings in Nepal today, killing nearly 900 people as the worst temblor in 80 years destroyed the iconic Dharhara tower and renowned Darbar Square in the heart of the capital.
127.txt:According to Nepalese Home Ministry figures, 150 people lost lives in neighbouring Bhaktapur, 67 in Lalitpur and 37 in Dhading district. Besides, 20 people were killed in the country's eastern region, 33 in western region and rest in other parts of the Himalayan nation.The earthquake around 11:56 am with epicentre at Lamjung, around 80 kilometers northwest of Kathmandu, had its impact in several cities in Bihar, West Bengal and UP and tremors were felt across vast stretches of east and northeast India.It was also felt in Southern and Western parts of India, China, Bhutan and as far as Pakistan and Bangladesh.Miraculously the famous 5th century Pashupatinath temple here was undamaged, while a number of old temples were razed.Several buildings, most of them old, in the densely- populated Kathmandu Valley collapsed, killing hundreds.At least 180 bodies have been retrieved from the debris of two-century old nine-storey landmark Dharhara tower in the centre of the capital.Kathmandu's Darbar Square, a UNESCO World Heritage site, was completely damaged in the quake which was the worst to hit Nepal and surrounding regions after the earthquake of 8.4 magnitude which occurred along the Nepal-Bihar border in 1934.Video footages showed a number of buildings having caved in or developing huge cracks. Many of the city roads have suffered wide craters in the impact, affecting movement of vehicles and rescue operations.Army, police and emergency workers were pressed into service for rescue of those trapped and rushing injured survivors to hospitals. Many of the injured could be seen suffering bleeding injuries covered in dust from the debris.Indian Embassy spokesperson Abhay Kumar said some walls have collapsed in the impact of the earthquake and the embassy has set up two helplines +977 98511 07021, +977 98511 35141.Fifty doctors have arrived from India to provide emergency services.The daughter of a local employee in the Indian embassy died and his wife suffered serious injuries when a house in the mission complex in Kathmandu collapsed during the quake.Nearly 125 people from Maharashtra and Telangana are stranded in Nepal after the earthquake.Around 80 people from Nashik had gone to Nepal for pilgrimage while 15-20 people were on a trekking expedition. 25 tourists from Hyderabad, who are in Kathmandu, are safe."Now, all of us are safe in an open ground, close to the Pashupatinath temple in Kathmandu," Gowrishankar, who took the tourists, said.
129.txt:Nepal was on Saturday struck by the worst earthquake in 80 years, leaving nearly 1,500 people, including two Indians, dead in flattened houses and buildings including the iconic Dharhara tower and renowned Darbar Square in the heart of the capital.
129.txt:Over 200 bodies have been retrieved from the debris of two-century old nine-storey landmark Dharhara tower in the centre of the capital. Kathmandu's Darbar Square, a UNESCO World Heritage site, was completely damaged in the quake which was the worst to hit Nepal and surrounding regions after the earthquake of 8.4 magnitude which occurred along the Nepal-Bihar border in 1934.
1305.txt:From Sagarmatha (head of the sky), the Nepali name for Mt Everest, to the Indian frontiers, Nepal lies in ruins. Saturday's earthquake has wrought death and devastation; it has destroyed a part of the landlocked nation's history as well. The number of casualties, and cracking and crashing of houses continues to grow by the hour.At Sundhara near the Army headquarters in Kathmandu, the Bhimsen Tower, popularly known as Dharhara, is reduced to rubble. The nine-storey structure was built by PM Bhimsen Thapa. This was Nepalis' answer to Kolkata's Ochterlony Monument (later renamed Shahid Minar by Bengal's Communists). The East India Company had built it in memory of Gen David Ochterlony who defeated Nepal in the 1814-16 Anglo-Gurkha war.A little south of Kasthamandap, a shrine that gave the city its name, many ancient temples lie flattened.Kasthamandap is dedicated to Guru Gorakhnath (guardian deity of the Gorkhas). The nearby Hanuman Dhoka Durbar (old palace) stands damaged.The Patan Durbar Square, 4km south of Hanuman Dhoka, and Bhaktapur, an ancient city 10km east of Kathmandu, too are a picture of devastation. Restoration of these great icons of Newar civilization is near impossible. Destruction in the verdant hills lying between Kathmandu in the east and Pokhara in the west is equally shattering. This stretch and beyond in the west is known as the nursery of Gorkha soldiers who serve in the Indian, British and Nepali armies.Nepal has more than 100,000 veterans from the Indian armed forces. Most of them collect pension from the military pension office of the Indian embassy in Pokhara. Britain too runs a recruitment centre in this picturesque town.Both countries are concerned about their serving and retired fighters.News of death and destruction continues to pour in from remote Rasua on the Tibetan border to Morang right next to Bihar's Araria district. At Janakpur close to Bihar's Sitamarhi, the tip of the Janaki Temple (where, some claimed, Sita was born) is damaged.Equally disturbing are the reports of the death of mountaineers. The intensity of the quake was so big that over a dozen villagers died on the Tibetan plateau across the Himalayas.The images of destruction take the Nepalese back to the quake of 1934 when over 10,000 people died, mostly in Kathmandu Valley. Those days the Himalayan nation was in the dark age of Rana rule. Eighty-one years later, it has a people's government, though without a constitution. But tragedy remains the same.
149.txt:An Indian embassy employee's daughter died and wife suffered serious injuries when a house in the mission complex in Kathmandu collapsed during the powerful earthquake that struck Nepal.The nationality of the contract-based mission staff was not immediately known."A house in our Embassy complex collapsed. Unfortunately, the daughter of our employee Madan has died. His wife's condition is serious," External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj said.Hundreds of people were killed after a powerful earthquake measuring 7.9 on Richter scale hit Nepal today flattening houses and buildings including the centuries-old Dharhara tower and triggering an avalanche on Mt Everest.The earthquake with epicentre at Lamjung, around 80 kilometres northwest of Kathmandu, had its impact in several cities in Bihar, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh and tremors were felt across vast stretches of east and northeast India. It was also felt in China, Bhutan and as far as Pakistan and Bangladesh.
185.txt:Around 180 bodies were seen pulled from the ruins of Dharhara tower in the center of Kathmandu when the massive quake struck at 11:45 a.m. local time (0600 GMT).
1935.txt:The earthquake and the aftershocks left behind a trail of death and destruction, flattening houses and buildings, including the iconic Dharhara tower and the landmark Darbar Square in the heart of the capital, trapping scores of people.
1935.txt:The powerful temblor practically levelled the nation's tangible cultural history, robbing it of its architectural jewels, including the landmark Dharhara Tower, in an eerie reminder of the 1934 quake that claimed over 10,000 lives.
197.txt:LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh government has assured all possible help to Nepal in the wake of the devastating earthquake and will send water, food packets and medicines to the Himalayan country.The decision was taken by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav to send 10 trucks of mineral water, 10 trucks of biscuits and one truck of medicines for help to Nepal tomorrow, a government spokesperson said.The state government and the people of Uttar Pradesh are with the country in this time of crisis, Akhilesh said.The government has also directed the district magistrates of all regions to set up a control room, the spokesperson said, adding, various hospitals, fire fighting services, and police have been asked to be on high-alert.A 24-hour Control Room has been set up at Uttar Pradesh Disaster Management Department in Gomti Nagar to provide all help and information round the clock.The numbers to the Control Room are -0522-4015703 and 0522-4915723, he said.Nepal was today struck by the worst earthquake in 80 years, leaving nearly 1,500 people, including two Indians, dead in flattened houses and buildings including the iconic Dharhara tower and renowned Darbar Square in the heart of the capital.The tremors were also felt in northern and eastern parts of India, killing 36 people and injuring close to 200 others.
1982.txt:The earthquake and the aftershocks left behind a trail of death and destruction, flattening houses and buildings, including the iconic Dharhara tower and the landmark Darbar Square in the heart of the capital, trapping scores of people.
2047.txt:The powerful quake razed to the ground a number of buildings, including the iconic Dharhara tower and the landmark Darbar Square - a UNESCO World Heritage site - in the heart of the capital, trapping scores of people.
231.txt:Around 180 bodies were pulled from the ruins of the nine-story Dharhara Tower in the center of the capital, China's official Xinhua News Agency reports. It said about 200 were feared trapped in the rubble of the tower in the city's historic Basantapur Durbar Square.
2537.txt:“I was passing by Dharhara when I felt a huge tremor of earthquake," Sujata Thapa, 22, told the Guardian. "I stood still. In a few seconds, I saw Dharhara falling down. People were screaming in pain.”
260.txt:Following the Nepal earthquake that occurred at 06:11:26 UTC on April 25, state-owned BSNL, MTNL and even Airtel announced local and free calls to the calamity-struck region. The earthquake which measured 7.9 on Richter scale, claimed the lives of almost 700 people. Apart from bringing down many buildings and houses, it triggered an avalanche on Mount Everest and destroyed the famous Dharhara tower.
2795.txt:A 7.9-magnitude earthquake jolted the Himalayan nation on Saturday followed by several aftershocks that left a trail of death and destruction. The powerful trembler flattened houses and buildings, including the iconic Dharhara tower and the landmark Darbar Square in the heart of the capital. The death toll in the quake has climbed to over 4,000 with another 8,000 others injured in the disaster.
2.txt:Kathmandu (AFP) April 25, 2015 - An historic 19th-century tower collapsed in the heart of Kathmandu's old quarter after an earthquake on Saturday, with at least a dozen bodies seen pulled from the rubble and fears of scores still trapped. Kathmandu (AFP) April 25, 2015 - An historic 19th-century tower collapsed in the heart of Kathmandu's old quarter after an earthquake on Saturday, with at least a dozen bodies seen pulled from the rubble and fears of scores still trapped. The nine-storey Dharhara tower is a major tourist attraction in Durbar Square at the heart of Kathmandu's historic old city where kings were once crowned, with its eighth-floor balcony providing panoramic views of the Kathmandu valley. The tower -- which was white, topped with a bronze minaret and contained a spiral staircase of over 200 steps -- was reduced to just its base when the 7.8-magnitude quake struck at lunchtime. Rescue workers were seen dragging bodies from the rubble and TV footage showed chaotic scenes at the site, as people desperately tried to dig through piles of bricks and dust with their bare hands. Kathmandu police spokesman Dinesh Acharya said rescuers were frantically trying to "bring everyone out to safety". "Our team is still deployed in Dharara to rescue people. However, we do not know how many are still trapped," he told AFP. People took to social media to express their dismay at the historic site's collapse. "Devastating to see Dharhara (Bhimsen Tower) collapsed," user Prabir Bhatt said on Twitter. "The historic #Dharhara tower in #Nepal destroyed by the #Earthquake. Prayers!" wrote Rahul Sharma. Saturday was not the first time the 50.5-metre-high tower -- built by Nepal's then prime minister for the queen in 1832 -- has been hit by an earthquake. Much of Durbar Square, a UNESCO World Heritage site and the social and cultural heart of the city, had to be rebuilt after a huge quake in 1934. The tower collapsed in that quake and was rebuilt two stories lower than the original. The tower was a popular attraction, with tourists charged a small fee to climb the steps to the viewing deck. A small shrine to the Hindu god Shiva was located at the top. The Wikipedia page for the tower was updated within minutes after the earthquake hit, with the news of its collapse. A massive 7.8 magnitude earthquake killed hundreds of people Saturday as it ripped through large parts of Nepal, toppling office blocks and towers in Kathmandu and triggering an avalanche that hit Everest base camp. Officials said at least 449 people are known to have died in Nepal but that the toll could be much higher, while more than two dozen people were also reported killed in neighbouring India, China and Bangladesh. "The death toll based on information received on our network across the country has reached 449," Nepal's national police spokesman Kamal Singh Bam told AFP. "Deaths have been reported from all regions except the far west. All our security personnel have been deployed to rescue and assist those in need." Officials said an avalanche had buried parts of Mount Everest's base camp in Nepal where hundreds of mountaineers have gathered at the start of the annual climbing season. "An avalanche from Mt. Pumori has hit the base camp, burying a part of it," Gyanendra Kumar Shrestha, an official in Nepal's tourism department, told AFP. "We are trying to assess how many are injured. There might be over 1,000 people there right now, including foreign climbers and Nepalese supporting staff." AFP Nepal bureau chief Ammu Kannampilly, on an assignment to Everest, was among those caught up in the chaos and reported that snowfall meant it was impossible for helicopters to reach the area. Two experienced mountaineers said that panic erupted at base camp which was full of climbing teams and had been "severely damaged", while one said the quake triggered a "huge avalanche". -- Historic tower collapses -- But the worst damage was reported in Kathmandu, where the historic nine-storey Dharahara tower, a major tourist attraction, was among the buildings to have been brought down. At least a dozen bodies were taken away from the ruins of the 19th century tower, according to an AFP photographer who saw similar scenes of multiple casualties in other parts of the city. While contact with Nepal was sporadic, a senior Nepalese diplomat warned that the final toll could run into many hundreds. "We have received reports that there is a big loss of property and life in Nepal," Krishna Prasad Dhakal, the deputy chief of mission at Nepal's Embassy in New Delhi, told AFP. "Possibly hundreds of people have died in various parts of the country, particularly in Kathmandu and Pokhara." At least 26 people were known to have died in India, including 17 in the eastern state of Bihar, while buildings in the capital New Delhi had to be evacuated. The United States Geological Survey and India's meteorological service said the shallow quake struck 77 kilometres (48 miles) northwest of Kathmandu at 0611 GMT, with walls crumbling and families racing outside their homes. "The walls of houses have collapsed around me onto the road. All the families are outside in their yards huddled together," an AFP reporter said in Kathmandu. Another resident recounted scenes of panic and mayhem. "Everything started shaking. Everything fell down. The walls around the main road have collapsed. The national stadium's gates have collapsed," Anupa Shrestha said. The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country's only international airport which was briefly closed. Kari Cuelenaere, an official at the Dutch embassy, said the impact had swept the water out of a swimming pool at a Kathmandu hotel where Dutch national day was being celebrated. "It was horrible, all of a sudden all the water came up out of the pool and drenched everyone, the children started screaming," Cuelenaere told AFP. "Some parts of the city fell down, there was dust rising... There were many (rescue) helicopters. Aftershock tremors could be felt more than two hours after the initial quake. Initially measured at 7.5 magnitude, the quake was later adjusted to 7.8, with a depth of 15 kilometres, the USGS said. It hit 73 kilometres east of the tourist town of Pokhara. - Tremors felt across region - Witnesses and media reports said the tremors lasted between 30 seconds and two minutes. "We are in the process of finding more information and are working to reach out to those affected, both at home and in Nepal," Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a tweet. The AFP office in Delhi was evacuated twice following the quake. China's official Xinhua news agency said that two people, including an 83-year-old woman, were killed in the Tibet region as a result of the quake. The earthquake was also felt across large areas of Bangladesh, triggering panic in the capital Dhaka as people rushed out onto the streets. In the garment manufacturing hub of Savar, on the outskirts of Dhaka, at least 50 workers were injured after the quake set off a stampede in a garment factory, according to the private Jamuna television. The area has a history of earthquakes, with a 6.8 magnitude quake that hit eastern Nepal in August 1988 killing 721 people. A magnitude 8.1 quake killed 10,700 people in Nepal and eastern India in 1934. Deadliest earthquakes of the past 30 years
328.txt:Hospital facilities are over-crowded with injured and many injured are undergoing treatment in the open outside the hospitals. Some 180 bodies have been pulled from the ruins of historic Dharhara tower in the center of Kathmandu.
337.txt:Around 180 bodies were pulled from the ruins of the nine-story Dharhara tower in the center of the capital, China’s official Xinhua News Agency reports. It said about 200 were feared trapped in the rubble of the tower in the city’s historic Basantapur Durbar Square.
338.txt:Around 180 bodies were pulled from the ruins of the nine-story Dharhara tower in the center of the capital, China’s official Xinhua News Agency reports. It said about 200 were feared trapped in the rubble of the tower in the city’s historic Basantapur Durbar Square.
3466.txt:My parents-in-law live in a very historic house near Kathmandu's landmark Dharhara tower - which has now collapsed. Their home is so badly damaged and they've spent the past two nights in a tent. I also heard from my sister that my parent's village has also suffered extensive damage. It's in the district of Sindhupalchowk, which was the epicentre of the second aftershock - measuring 6.7 on the Richter scale. I was told today that over 95% houses were damaged and over 1000 people have died in that Sindupalchok district alone. I am grief stricken. The number seems to be going up by the hour. I am clearly not getting the whole picture yet.
3916.txt:Nepal that lies at the foothill of the Himalayas is familiar to the trekkers and climbers of the world’s highest peak of Mount Everest, was flattened by a strong earthquake measuring 7.9 on the Richter scale. The epicenter of the devastating quake was about ten kilometers north-west of the capital city of Kathmandu. The capital city has suffered massive loss in terms of human lives and habitats. According to the latest figures, more than ten thousand persons are reported to have perished and thousands are wounded. There is every possibility that the number of casualties can increase. A large number of people are reported missing. Much devastation has happened in the heart of the city including the iconic Dharhara tower and renowned Darbar Square. It is after about eighty years that a tragedy of this magnitude has struck Nepal once again. The first massive quake was followed by series of aftershocks, and their impact was felt in many parts of northern India. Bihar, Western UP, Bhutan, Delhi and even China and Pakistan also felt the tremors. In Delhi, metro service was suspended for some time for security reasons. About 44 persons in Bihar, West Bengal, Western UP and other places in the country are reported dead owing to house collapse.
392.txt:The nine-storey Dharhara tower is a major tourist attraction in Durbar Square at the heart of Kathmandu's historic old city where kings were once crowned, with its eighth-floor balcony providing panoramic views of the Kathmandu valley.
392.txt:"Devastating to see Dharhara (Bhimsen Tower) collapsed," user Prabir Bhatt said on Twitter.
392.txt:"The historic #Dharhara tower in #Nepal destroyed by the #Earthquake. Prayers!" wrote Rahul Sharma.
426.txt:The powerful earthquake flattened houses and buildings in Nepal, killing nearly 900 people as the worst temblor in 80 years destroyed the iconic Dharhara tower and renowned Darbar Square in the heart of the capital.
435.txt:The powerful quake destroyed several buildings including a UNESCO World Heritage site and the centuries-old Dharhara tower in the heart of the capital trapping scores of people.
435.txt:The landmark Dharhara tower in the centre of the capital collapsed and several people are feared trapped.
5063.txt:Returning via Dharahara, the pride of Kathmandu rebuilt by Nepal’s first Prime Minister Bhimsen Thapa after it was devastated in 1934 AD earthquake, I saw a short stump instead of the familiar nine-storey, 61.88-metre-tall (203 ft) tower. Along with durbar squares in Kathmandu, Patan and Bhaktapur—all World Heritage Sites—Dharhara, Kal Mochan and many significant monuments were reduced to mounds of earth.
5066.txt:The Dharhara tower, a veritable landmark of the city was destroyed in 1934 as well, but was rebuilt later, only to meet a more cruel fate this time.
5344.txt:The absence of Dharhara is most visible from the expansive grounds of Tundikhel, where a number of tents stand erected in the aftermath of the Great Quake and the children living in the makeshift tents are quick to notice the missing monument.
5344.txt:Earlier in the day, a group of volunteers had held a ‘drawing session’ for the children at the camps; they could draw whatever they wanted, they were told. Most of the children drew the Dharhara- broken and scattered—a symbol of the shake that rattled the nation “Most of the children drew what they saw and what they think,” said Yohoshu Ghising, one of the volunteers.
5423.txt:ATHIT PERAWONGMETHA People observe for a minute of silence for earthquake victims, in front of the collapsed Dharhara tower at Kathmandu on Thursday.
55.txt:Deputy Commissioner of Faridabad and Panipat are collecting food packets by involving various social organizations for the disaster-struck people of Nepal. We will provide around 20,000 food packets to the Central government to be airlifted to Nepal, an official release said here.Haryana government has also offered to provide blankets for the affected people.Nearly 700 people were killed after a powerful earthquake struck Nepal today flattening houses and buildings including the centuries-old Dharhara tower and triggering an avalanche on Mt Everest.The tremors were also felt in northern and eastern parts of India, killing 34 people and injuring about 100 others.
6191.txt:The 25 April quake had in many ways become an eerie reminder to the 1934 quake, which too has robbed the culturally-rich country of its architectural jewels, including the iconic Ghantaghar (clock tower). The Dharhara tower, a veritable landmark of the city was destroyed in 1934 as well, but was rebuilt later, only to meet a more cruel fate this time.
623.txt:Nearly 1,500 people, including two Indians, have died in Nepal and hundreds are feared missing, after a 7.9-magnitude earthquake tore through that country flattening houses and buildings including the iconic Dharhara tower and landmark Darbar Square in the heart of its capital. The death toll in Tibet has climbed to 17 after the powerful earthquake struck neighbouring Nepal, local authorities said today.
6634.txt:The 25 April quake had in many ways become an eerie reminder to the 1934 quake, which too has robbed the culturally-rich country of its architectural jewels, including the iconic Ghantaghar (clock tower). The Dharhara tower, a veritable landmark of the city was destroyed in 1934 as well, but was rebuilt later, only to meet a more cruel fate this time.
6635.txt:The 25 April quake had in many ways become an eerie reminder to the 1934 quake, which too has robbed the culturally-rich country of its architectural jewels, including the iconic Ghantaghar (clock tower). The Dharhara tower, a veritable landmark of the city was destroyed in 1934 as well, but was rebuilt later, only to meet a more cruel fate this time.
6636.txt:The 25 April quake had in many ways become an eerie reminder to the 1934 quake, which too has robbed the culturally-rich country of its architectural jewels, including the iconic Ghantaghar (clock tower). The Dharhara tower, a veritable landmark of the city was destroyed in 1934 as well, but was rebuilt later, only to meet a more cruel fate this time.
669.txt:"Starting 11 pm, 25th April , MTS India is treating all calls made from its network to Nepal as local calls, that is, one rupee a minute. This is being done for the next 48 hours to support disaster relief efforts and to enable concerned callers to reach out to their friends and family," MTS India said in a statement.In a statement, Tata Teleservices Ltd said, "... To support disaster relief measures, charges for all calls to Nepal on the Tata Docomo network are reduced to 1p/s between 26th to 28th April."Normal call rates to Nepal from India varies in the range of Rs 7 to 12 per minute.Besides, instant messaging app Viber said it has "switched off 'Viber Out' billing so users in Nepal can make free calls to mobile and land line numbers anywhere for the next 48 hours".In Nepal, the massive 7.9-magnitude earthquake and the aftershocks left behind a trail of death and destruction, flattening houses and buildings, including the iconic Dharhara tower and the landmark Darbar Square in the heart of the capital, trapping scores of people.Airtel has announced free calls to Nepal on its network, state-run BSNL and MTNL decided to charge local rates for calls made to the Himalayan nation.Private player Idea Cellular has also announced that it would charge calls made to Nepal from its network equal as per local call rates up to morning hours of April 28.
747.txt:Nearly 1,500 people, including two Indians, have died in Nepal and hundreds are feared missing, after a 7.9-magnitude earthquake tore through that country flattening houses and buildings including the iconic Dharhara tower and landmark Darbar Square in the heart of its capital. The death toll in Tibet has climbed to 17 after the powerful earthquake struck neighbouring Nepal, local authorities said today.
829.txt:Nearly 550 Indians have been evacuated by the IAF from the earthquake-hit Nepal even as India stepped up its relief and rescue mission with 10 flights and 12 helicopters scheduled to carry specialists and equipment to Kathmandu today. India has mounted a major rescue and rehabilitation effort, deploying 13 military aircraft which carried medicines, field hospitals, blankets, 50 tonnes of water and other materials. (Video: Difficult to predict how long aftershocks will last: Centre for Seismology) More than 700 disaster relief experts drawn from the National Disaster Relief Force have been deployed by India. A senior-level inter-ministerial team will visit Nepal to assess how India can better assist in the relief operations. Rescuers have been hunting for survivors under heaps of debris with bare hands as well as heavy equipment though the efforts have been hampered due to fresh tremors, thunderstorms and snowfall in the mountain ranges. Locals and tourists sifted through mounds of debris for survivors. Cheers rose when people were found alive, though mostly bodies were pulled out. MI-17 helicopters of the Indian Air Force (IAF) have carried out five casualty evacuation sorties and the injured have been moved to military hospitals. An Indian attempting to climb all the highest peaks in the seven continents, 54-year-old Ankur Bahl is also stuck at Camp II on Mount Everest along with 11 other fellow climbers. Bahl had moved to Camp II from Camp I yesterday but is now stranded due to the earthquake. The earthquake and the aftershocks left behind a trail of death and destruction, flattening houses and buildings, including the iconic Dharhara tower and the landmark Darbar Square in the heart of the capital, trapping scores of people. According to initial reports related to today's aftershock, a tunnel caved in at the Trishuli Hydel Project and around 60 labourers are feared trapped. Hospitals in Nepal are struggling to accommodate the number of injured that is running into thousands. People have been lying scattered on the floor and even on the ground outside and receiving treatment. The Nepalese government has established a fund of Rs 500 million for the reconstruction of the damaged infrastructure. With electric poles and lines uprooted, most parts of the country have no electricity since yesterday afternoon and authorities say the situation is likely to continue for the next few days. 26 districts are the most affected in Nepal though the far western part of the country has been declared safe. Offers of help poured in from around the world following the Nepalese government's appeal for assistance, with the European Union as well the United States saying they were sending in disaster response teams.
829.txt:Beyond colossal loss of human lives, if there is anything perhaps equally overwhelming in Nepal's earthquake tragedy, it is the monumental damage the country's iconic heritage has suffered due to the calamity. The powerful temblor practically levelled the nation's tangible cultural history, robbing it of its architectural jewels, including the landmark Dharhara Tower, in an eerie reminder of the 1934 quake that claimed over 10,000 lives. The Kathmandu Valley inscribed in the World Heritage list in 1979 include the Durbar Squares of Hanuman Dhoka (Kathmandu), Patan and Bhaktapur, the Buddhist stupas of Swayambhu and Bauddhanath and the Hindu temples of Pashupati and Changu Narayan. Tragedy came to revisit all the three Squares, as the sites had suffered extensive damage in the 1934 disaster too. Nepal is likely to experience widespread rains and thundershowers which may trigger landslides, according to India's weather department which has asked people to remain alert. — PTI
832.txt:In Nepal, the massive 7.9-magnitude earthquake and the aftershocks left behind a trail of death and destruction, flattening houses and buildings, including the iconic Dharhara tower and the landmark Darbar Square in the heart of the capital, trapping scores of people.
86.txt:Around 180 bodies were pulled from the ruins of the nine-story Dharhara Tower in the center of the capital, China's official Xinhua News Agency reports. It said about 200 were feared trapped in the rubble of the tower in the city's historic Basantapur Durbar Square.
891.txt:The earthquake and the aftershocks left behind a trail of death and destruction, flattening houses and buildings, including the iconic Dharhara tower and the landmark Darbar Square in the heart of the capital, trapping scores of people.
891.txt:The powerful temblor practically levelled the nation's tangible cultural history, robbing it of its architectural jewels, including the landmark Dharhara Tower, in an eerie reminder of the 1934 quake that claimed over 10,000 lives.
912.txt:The earthquake and the aftershocks left behind a trail of death and destruction, flattening houses and buildings, including the iconic Dharhara tower and the landmark Darbar Square in the heart of the capital, trapping scores of people.
913.txt:KATHMANDU: Racing against time, rescuers on Sunday waded through tonnes of rubble of flattened homes and buildings in Nepal to look for survivors of the earthquake that has killed over 2,350 people, including five Indians, and left more than 6,000 others injured.Fresh powerful aftershocks on Sunday triggered panic among the stricken people and caused avalanches on Mt Everest which had on Saturday taken a toll of 22 lives.A strong 6.7-magnitude aftershock followed by another measuring 6.5 on the Richter scale, sent people scrambling for open spaces.The 7.9-magnitude temblor on Saturday left a trail of devastation and suffering, with people spending the cold night in the open because of fears of fresh quake.According to the latest figures available with the Kathmandu-based National Emergency Operation Centre, the death toll in Nepal stood at 2,352 and 6,239 had been injured.1,053 people are reported killed in the Kathmandu valley alone. Officials fear the death toll could rise as desperate search for survivors continued.International rescue teams, including from India, have touched down here as Nepal declared a state of emergency in the wake of the disaster, the worst in over 80 years of the country's recorded history.India has mounted a major rescue and rehabilitation effort, deploying 13 military aircraft which carried medicines, field hospitals, blankets, 50 tonnes of water and other materials.More than 700 disaster relief experts drawn from the National Disaster Relief Force have been deployed by India.A senior-level inter-ministerial team will visit Nepal to assess how India can better assist in the relief operations.Rescuers have been hunting for survivors under heaps of debris with bare hands as well as heavy equipment though the efforts have been hampered due to fresh tremors, thunderstorms and snowfall in the mountain ranges.Locals and tourists sifted through mounds of debris for survivors. Cheers rose when people were found alive, though mostly bodies were pulled out.MI-17 helicopters of the Indian Air Force (IAF) have carried out five casualty evacuation sorties and the injured have been moved to military hospitals.An Indian attempting to climb all the highest peaks in the seven continents, 54-year-old Ankur Bahl is also stuck at Camp II on Mount Everest along with 11 other fellow climbers.Bahl had moved to Camp II from Camp I on Saturday, but is now stranded due to the earthquake.The earthquake and the aftershocks left behind a trail of death and destruction, flattening houses and buildings, including the iconic Dharhara tower and the landmark Darbar Square in the heart of the capital, trapping scores of people.According to initial reports related to Sunday's aftershock, a tunnel caved in at the Trishuli Hydel Project and around 60 labourers are feared trapped.Hospitals in Nepal are struggling to accommodate the number of injured that is running into thousands. People have been lying scattered on the floor and even on the ground outside and receiving treatment.The Nepalese government has established a fund of Rs 500 million for the reconstruction of the damaged infrastructure.With electric poles and lines uprooted, most parts of the country have no electricity since yesterday afternoon and authorities say the situation is likely to continue for the next few days.26 districts are the most affected in Nepal though the far western part of the country has been declared safe.Offers of help poured in from around the world following the Nepalese government's appeal for assistance, with the US, the European Union as well the United States saying they were sending in disaster response teams.Nepal has requested international assistance in the response to the disaster, with particular importance placed on the search and rescue capacity, medical teams, supplies and tenting for hospitals, heavy equipment for rubble removal and helicopters for transport and access to blocked areas.A large number of Indians, including many workers who visit the neighbouring country, said they were faced with basic problems like food and sanitation.Officials here said five Indians, including the daughter of an Indian embassy employee, were among those killed in the quake.Like many other areas of Nepal, Kathmandu is facing a colossal challenge of dealing with the devastation from the disaster.Whole streets and squares were covered in rubble in the capital, with an estimated metropolitan area population of around 3 million residents.As military helicopters hovered over Kathmandu and ferried relief supplies to victims of the earthquake in western Nepal, search and rescue efforts were going on in at least five locations in Kathmandu.Near Prime Minister Sushil Koirala's official residence, two bulldozers scoured the rubble of a flattened four-storey house. A bystander said it was the local tax office. The bodies of the four staff inside had been recovered minutes before.The United States, Britain, China, Pakistan and European Union countries are among those who have pledged aid.A number of international charities including Red Cross, Oxfam, Doctors Without Borders and Christian Aid are also sending teams to quake-hit areas.The International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies said it was especially worried about the fate of villages near the epicentre of the quake, some 80km from Kathmandu.The problems have been compounded by erratic internet and mobile phone communications.Beyond colossal loss of human lives, if there is anything perhaps equally overwhelming in Nepal's earthquake tragedy, it is the monumental damage the country's iconic heritage has suffered due to the calamity.The powerful temblor practically levelled the nation's tangible cultural history, robbing it of its architectural jewels, including the landmark Dharhara Tower, in an eerie reminder of the 1934 quake that claimed over 10,000 lives.The Kathmandu valley inscribed in the World Heritage list in 1979 include the Durbar Squares of Hanuman Dhoka (Kathmandu), Patan and Bhaktapur, the Buddhist stupas of Swayambhu and Bauddhanath and the Hindu temples of Pashupati and Changu Narayan.Tragedy came to revisit all the three Squares, as the sites had suffered extensive damage in the 1934 disaster too.Nepal is likely to experience widespread rains and thundershowers which may trigger landslides, according to India's weather department which has asked people to remain alert.
914.txt:The earthquake and the aftershocks left behind a trail of death and destruction, flattening houses and buildings, including the iconic Dharhara tower and the landmark Darbar Square in the heart of the capital, trapping scores of people.
97.txt:Around 180 bodies were pulled from the ruins of the nine-story Dharhara Tower in the center of the capital, China's official Xinhua News Agency reports. It said about 200 were feared trapped in the rubble of the tower in the city's historic Basantapur Durbar Square.
980.txt:The powerful quake razed to the ground a number of buildings, including the iconic Dharhara tower and the landmark Darbar Square - a UNESCO World Heritage site - in the heart of the capital, trapping scores of people.
988.txt:The powerful quake razed to the ground a number of buildings, including the iconic Dharhara tower and the landmark Darbar Square - a UNESCO World Heritage site - in the heart of the capital, trapping scores of people.
99.txt:Around 180 bodies were pulled from the ruins of the nine-story Dharhara Tower in the center of the capital, China's official Xinhua News Agency reports. It said about 200 were feared trapped in the rubble of the tower in the city's historic Basantapur Durbar Square.
airport.txt:2.txt:Kathmandu (AFP) April 25, 2015 - An historic 19th-century tower collapsed in the heart of Kathmandu's old quarter after an earthquake on Saturday, with at least a dozen bodies seen pulled from the rubble and fears of scores still trapped. Kathmandu (AFP) April 25, 2015 - An historic 19th-century tower collapsed in the heart of Kathmandu's old quarter after an earthquake on Saturday, with at least a dozen bodies seen pulled from the rubble and fears of scores still trapped. The nine-storey Dharhara tower is a major tourist attraction in Durbar Square at the heart of Kathmandu's historic old city where kings were once crowned, with its eighth-floor balcony providing panoramic views of the Kathmandu valley. The tower -- which was white, topped with a bronze minaret and contained a spiral staircase of over 200 steps -- was reduced to just its base when the 7.8-magnitude quake struck at lunchtime. Rescue workers were seen dragging bodies from the rubble and TV footage showed chaotic scenes at the site, as people desperately tried to dig through piles of bricks and dust with their bare hands. Kathmandu police spokesman Dinesh Acharya said rescuers were frantically trying to "bring everyone out to safety". "Our team is still deployed in Dharara to rescue people. However, we do not know how many are still trapped," he told AFP. People took to social media to express their dismay at the historic site's collapse. "Devastating to see Dharhara (Bhimsen Tower) collapsed," user Prabir Bhatt said on Twitter. "The historic #Dharhara tower in #Nepal destroyed by the #Earthquake. Prayers!" wrote Rahul Sharma. Saturday was not the first time the 50.5-metre-high tower -- built by Nepal's then prime minister for the queen in 1832 -- has been hit by an earthquake. Much of Durbar Square, a UNESCO World Heritage site and the social and cultural heart of the city, had to be rebuilt after a huge quake in 1934. The tower collapsed in that quake and was rebuilt two stories lower than the original. The tower was a popular attraction, with tourists charged a small fee to climb the steps to the viewing deck. A small shrine to the Hindu god Shiva was located at the top. The Wikipedia page for the tower was updated within minutes after the earthquake hit, with the news of its collapse. A massive 7.8 magnitude earthquake killed hundreds of people Saturday as it ripped through large parts of Nepal, toppling office blocks and towers in Kathmandu and triggering an avalanche that hit Everest base camp. Officials said at least 449 people are known to have died in Nepal but that the toll could be much higher, while more than two dozen people were also reported killed in neighbouring India, China and Bangladesh. "The death toll based on information received on our network across the country has reached 449," Nepal's national police spokesman Kamal Singh Bam told AFP. "Deaths have been reported from all regions except the far west. All our security personnel have been deployed to rescue and assist those in need." Officials said an avalanche had buried parts of Mount Everest's base camp in Nepal where hundreds of mountaineers have gathered at the start of the annual climbing season. "An avalanche from Mt. Pumori has hit the base camp, burying a part of it," Gyanendra Kumar Shrestha, an official in Nepal's tourism department, told AFP. "We are trying to assess how many are injured. There might be over 1,000 people there right now, including foreign climbers and Nepalese supporting staff." AFP Nepal bureau chief Ammu Kannampilly, on an assignment to Everest, was among those caught up in the chaos and reported that snowfall meant it was impossible for helicopters to reach the area. Two experienced mountaineers said that panic erupted at base camp which was full of climbing teams and had been "severely damaged", while one said the quake triggered a "huge avalanche". -- Historic tower collapses -- But the worst damage was reported in Kathmandu, where the historic nine-storey Dharahara tower, a major tourist attraction, was among the buildings to have been brought down. At least a dozen bodies were taken away from the ruins of the 19th century tower, according to an AFP photographer who saw similar scenes of multiple casualties in other parts of the city. While contact with Nepal was sporadic, a senior Nepalese diplomat warned that the final toll could run into many hundreds. "We have received reports that there is a big loss of property and life in Nepal," Krishna Prasad Dhakal, the deputy chief of mission at Nepal's Embassy in New Delhi, told AFP. "Possibly hundreds of people have died in various parts of the country, particularly in Kathmandu and Pokhara." At least 26 people were known to have died in India, including 17 in the eastern state of Bihar, while buildings in the capital New Delhi had to be evacuated. The United States Geological Survey and India's meteorological service said the shallow quake struck 77 kilometres (48 miles) northwest of Kathmandu at 0611 GMT, with walls crumbling and families racing outside their homes. "The walls of houses have collapsed around me onto the road. All the families are outside in their yards huddled together," an AFP reporter said in Kathmandu. Another resident recounted scenes of panic and mayhem. "Everything started shaking. Everything fell down. The walls around the main road have collapsed. The national stadium's gates have collapsed," Anupa Shrestha said. The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country's only international airport which was briefly closed. Kari Cuelenaere, an official at the Dutch embassy, said the impact had swept the water out of a swimming pool at a Kathmandu hotel where Dutch national day was being celebrated. "It was horrible, all of a sudden all the water came up out of the pool and drenched everyone, the children started screaming," Cuelenaere told AFP. "Some parts of the city fell down, there was dust rising... There were many (rescue) helicopters. Aftershock tremors could be felt more than two hours after the initial quake. Initially measured at 7.5 magnitude, the quake was later adjusted to 7.8, with a depth of 15 kilometres, the USGS said. It hit 73 kilometres east of the tourist town of Pokhara. - Tremors felt across region - Witnesses and media reports said the tremors lasted between 30 seconds and two minutes. "We are in the process of finding more information and are working to reach out to those affected, both at home and in Nepal," Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a tweet. The AFP office in Delhi was evacuated twice following the quake. China's official Xinhua news agency said that two people, including an 83-year-old woman, were killed in the Tibet region as a result of the quake. The earthquake was also felt across large areas of Bangladesh, triggering panic in the capital Dhaka as people rushed out onto the streets. In the garment manufacturing hub of Savar, on the outskirts of Dhaka, at least 50 workers were injured after the quake set off a stampede in a garment factory, according to the private Jamuna television. The area has a history of earthquakes, with a 6.8 magnitude quake that hit eastern Nepal in August 1988 killing 721 people. A magnitude 8.1 quake killed 10,700 people in Nepal and eastern India in 1934. Deadliest earthquakes of the past 30 years
crack.txt:127.txt:According to Nepalese Home Ministry figures, 150 people lost lives in neighbouring Bhaktapur, 67 in Lalitpur and 37 in Dhading district. Besides, 20 people were killed in the country's eastern region, 33 in western region and rest in other parts of the Himalayan nation.The earthquake around 11:56 am with epicentre at Lamjung, around 80 kilometers northwest of Kathmandu, had its impact in several cities in Bihar, West Bengal and UP and tremors were felt across vast stretches of east and northeast India.It was also felt in Southern and Western parts of India, China, Bhutan and as far as Pakistan and Bangladesh.Miraculously the famous 5th century Pashupatinath temple here was undamaged, while a number of old temples were razed.Several buildings, most of them old, in the densely- populated Kathmandu Valley collapsed, killing hundreds.At least 180 bodies have been retrieved from the debris of two-century old nine-storey landmark Dharhara tower in the centre of the capital.Kathmandu's Darbar Square, a UNESCO World Heritage site, was completely damaged in the quake which was the worst to hit Nepal and surrounding regions after the earthquake of 8.4 magnitude which occurred along the Nepal-Bihar border in 1934.Video footages showed a number of buildings having caved in or developing huge cracks. Many of the city roads have suffered wide craters in the impact, affecting movement of vehicles and rescue operations.Army, police and emergency workers were pressed into service for rescue of those trapped and rushing injured survivors to hospitals. Many of the injured could be seen suffering bleeding injuries covered in dust from the debris.Indian Embassy spokesperson Abhay Kumar said some walls have collapsed in the impact of the earthquake and the embassy has set up two helplines +977 98511 07021, +977 98511 35141.Fifty doctors have arrived from India to provide emergency services.The daughter of a local employee in the Indian embassy died and his wife suffered serious injuries when a house in the mission complex in Kathmandu collapsed during the quake.Nearly 125 people from Maharashtra and Telangana are stranded in Nepal after the earthquake.Around 80 people from Nashik had gone to Nepal for pilgrimage while 15-20 people were on a trekking expedition. 25 tourists from Hyderabad, who are in Kathmandu, are safe."Now, all of us are safe in an open ground, close to the Pashupatinath temple in Kathmandu," Gowrishankar, who took the tourists, said.
crack.txt:1305.txt:From Sagarmatha (head of the sky), the Nepali name for Mt Everest, to the Indian frontiers, Nepal lies in ruins. Saturday's earthquake has wrought death and devastation; it has destroyed a part of the landlocked nation's history as well. The number of casualties, and cracking and crashing of houses continues to grow by the hour.At Sundhara near the Army headquarters in Kathmandu, the Bhimsen Tower, popularly known as Dharhara, is reduced to rubble. The nine-storey structure was built by PM Bhimsen Thapa. This was Nepalis' answer to Kolkata's Ochterlony Monument (later renamed Shahid Minar by Bengal's Communists). The East India Company had built it in memory of Gen David Ochterlony who defeated Nepal in the 1814-16 Anglo-Gurkha war.A little south of Kasthamandap, a shrine that gave the city its name, many ancient temples lie flattened.Kasthamandap is dedicated to Guru Gorakhnath (guardian deity of the Gorkhas). The nearby Hanuman Dhoka Durbar (old palace) stands damaged.The Patan Durbar Square, 4km south of Hanuman Dhoka, and Bhaktapur, an ancient city 10km east of Kathmandu, too are a picture of devastation. Restoration of these great icons of Newar civilization is near impossible. Destruction in the verdant hills lying between Kathmandu in the east and Pokhara in the west is equally shattering. This stretch and beyond in the west is known as the nursery of Gorkha soldiers who serve in the Indian, British and Nepali armies.Nepal has more than 100,000 veterans from the Indian armed forces. Most of them collect pension from the military pension office of the Indian embassy in Pokhara. Britain too runs a recruitment centre in this picturesque town.Both countries are concerned about their serving and retired fighters.News of death and destruction continues to pour in from remote Rasua on the Tibetan border to Morang right next to Bihar's Araria district. At Janakpur close to Bihar's Sitamarhi, the tip of the Janaki Temple (where, some claimed, Sita was born) is damaged.Equally disturbing are the reports of the death of mountaineers. The intensity of the quake was so big that over a dozen villagers died on the Tibetan plateau across the Himalayas.The images of destruction take the Nepalese back to the quake of 1934 when over 10,000 people died, mostly in Kathmandu Valley. Those days the Himalayan nation was in the dark age of Rana rule. Eighty-one years later, it has a people's government, though without a constitution. But tragedy remains the same.
